Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Enhance data and service resilience in Azure Monitor Logs with availability zones
Article
2024-12-26
13 contributors
In this article
Azure availability zonesprotect applications and data from datacenter failures and can enhance the resilience of Azure Monitor features that rely on a Log Analytics workspace. In some regions, availability zones protect all Log Analytics workspaces by default. In other regions, you need to link your workspace to a dedicated cluster for availability zone protection. This article describes the data and service resilience benefits Azure Monitor availability zones provide, and lists the level of support provided in each region.
Note
Application Insights resources can use availability zones only if they're workspace-based. Classic Application Insights resources can't use availability zones.
Prerequisites
A Log Analytics workspace linked to a shared ordedicated cluster. Azure Monitor creates Log Analytics workspaces in a shared cluster, unless you set up a dedicated cluster for your workspaces.
How availability zones enhance data and service resilience in Azure Monitor Logs
Each Azure region that supports availability zones is made of one or more datacenters, or zones, equipped with independent power, cooling, and networking infrastructure.
Azure Monitor Logs availability zones arezone-redundant, which means that Microsoft manages spreading service requests and replicating data across different zones in supported regions. If an incident affects one zone, Microsoft manages failover to a different availability zone in the region automatically. You don't need to take any action because switching between zones is seamless.
A subset of the availability zones that support data resilience currently also support service resilience for Azure Monitor Logs. In regions that supportservice resilience, Azure Monitor Logs service operations - for example, log ingestion, queries, and alerts - can continue in the event of a zone failure. In regions that only supportdata resilience, your stored data is protected against zonal failures, but service operations might be impacted by regional incidents.
Note
Moving to a dedicated cluster in a region that supports availability zones protects data ingested after the move, not historical data.
Supported regions
1Ingestion from Event Hubsfeature is not resilient to zonal outages in these regions.
Migrate a Log Analytics workspace to availability zone support
If your Log Analytics workspace isn't in one of theregions that support availability zonesfor shared clusters,link your workspace to a dedicated cluster.
Linking your workspace to a dedicated cluster:
Requires a commitment tier starting at 100 GB a day.
Protects new data you ingest to your Log Analytics workspace. Data you ingest before you link your workspace to a dedicated cluster remains in the shared cluster.
Next steps
Learn more aboutAzure Monitor Logs features that enhance resilience and reliability.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources