Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Stakeholder access quick reference
Article
2025-04-07
5 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
Stakeholderaccess provides free access to a limited set of features for an unlimited number of users. Generally,Stakeholderaccess users get restricted access to Azure Boards and collaboration tools, while they don't have access to code repositories.
Stakeholderaccess users can create and modify work items, as well as create and save queries. They can view and approve release pipelines and perform administrative tasks if granted administrative permissions or added to an administrative group. However, if they need to contribute to the code base, assign them at leastBasicaccess.
If you haveStakeholderaccess and want to start using Azure Boards to track work, seeGet started as a Stakeholder. If you're responsible for administrative tasks, seeManage your projectfor guidance.
Assign Stakeholder access users to a security group
In general, use the following guidance when assigningStakeholderaccess users to a security group:
Add to theContributorssecurity group for managers or users who don't actively contribute to the code base but want to check project status and provide direction, feedback, feature ideas, and business alignment to a team.
Add to theProject Administratorssecurity group for users tasked with managing project resources.
Add to theProject Collection Administratorssecurity group for users tasked with managing organization or collection resources.


Public versus private feature access
Users withStakeholderaccess privileges can access features based on whether the project is private or public. For private projects, Stakeholders receive limited access to specific work tracking functions, whereas for public projects, Stakeholders enjoy full access to work tracking features. For more information about public projects, seeWhat is a public project?.
Azure Boards
The following table summarizes the features Stakeholders have access to from Azure Boards. Stakeholders can view and edit all work items for which they have Area Path permissions, which by default is set to Allow for all user security groups. For more information, seeSet permissions and access for work tracking.
For an overview of work tracking features, seeWhat is Azure Boards?
Note
Users withStakeholderaccess in public projects can view Delivery Plans, but can't add or edit them.
Page
Features can use
Features can't use
Work Items
View, add, and edit work items
Assign existing tags to work items
Use theWork Items hub
Change work item type1
Email work items
Apply a work item template
Add new work item tags
Delete work items
Move work items to another project
Boards
View boards, open and edit work items
Add work items to a board
Update status through drag-and-drop
Add child items to a checklist
Assign to a sprint (from card field)
Configure team boards2
Change the priority of an item within a board
Change fields on cards on a board, except for State field
Boards
View boards, open and edit work items
Update status through drag-and-drop
Add child items to a checklist
Assign to a sprint (from card field)
Configure team boards2
Add work items to a board
Change the priority of an item within a board
Change fields on cards on a board, except for State field
Backlogs
View backlogs and open work items
Add work items (to the bottom of a backlog)
Use bulk edit features
Change the priority of an item within a backlog
Drag-and-drop work items to the Mapping pane (parent a work item)
Drag-and-drop work items to the Planning pane (assign to a sprint)
Sprints
View sprint backlogs, taskboards, and open work items
View work details
Add work items to the bottom of a sprint backlog
Use bulk edit features
Configure team sprint taskboards2
Change the priority of an item within a backlog
Change fields on cards on a Taskboard, except for State field
View or set team capacity
Add tasks to a sprint backlog
Queries
View and run My queries or Shared queries
Create and save My queries
Create or edit shared queries
View query charts
Create query charts
Delivery Plans
View delivery plans
Add or edit a delivery plan
Delivery Plans(Extension)
None
View delivery plans
Add or edit a delivery plan
Notes:
Controllable through project-level permission.
Requires assignment as a team administrator or member of the Project Administrators Group.
Azure Test Plans
Users withStakeholderaccess can perform the following tasks related to testing. For an overview of manual test features and functions, seeTesting overview.
Provide feedback using the Test & Feedback extension
Apply a work item template to a test case
Dashboards, notifications, READMEs, and wikis
The following table summarizes the featuresStakeholderaccess users have to these areas:Dashboards,Notifications,Project pages,READMEs, andWikis.
Note
Users withStakeholderaccess in public projects have full access to all dashboard and Wiki features.
Feature area
Features can use
Features can't use
Dashboards
View dashboards
Add and configure team dashboards
Add and configure project dashboards
Notifications
Set personal notifications or alerts
Set team notifications or alerts1
Set project-level notifications or alerts1
Project pages
View the project page
Navigate using the Project pages
Set personal favorites
View repository READMEs
Search
Perform work tracking and project wiki search
Perform code search
Perform code wiki search
READMEs
Can view project README
View repository READMEs
Wikis
View project wikis
View code wikis
Edit project or code wikis
Notes:
Requires team administrator role or addition to Project Administrators group.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources