Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Article
2025-04-15
13 contributors
In this article
Azure offers various virtual machine sizes and types, each with a different mix of performance capabilities. One capability is network throughput (or bandwidth), measured in megabits per second (Mbps). Because virtual machines are hosted on shared hardware, the network capacity must be shared fairly among the virtual machines sharing the same hardware. Larger virtual machines are allocated relatively more bandwidth than smaller virtual machines.
The network bandwidth allocated to each virtual machine is measured on egress (outbound) traffic from the virtual machine. All network traffic leaving the virtual machine is counted toward the allocated limit, regardless of destination. For example, if a virtual machine has a 1,000-Mbps limit, that limit applies whether the outbound traffic is destined for another virtual machine in the same virtual network, or outside of Azure.
Ingress isn't measured or limited directly. However, there are other factors, such as CPU and storage limits, which can affect a virtual machine’s ability to process incoming data.
Accelerated networking is a feature designed to improve network performance, including latency, throughput, and CPU utilization. While accelerated networking can improve a virtual machine’s throughput, it can do so only up to the virtual machine’s allocated bandwidth. To learn more about Accelerated networking, see Accelerated networking forWindowsorLinuxvirtual machines.
Azure virtual machines must have one, but might have several, network interfaces attached to them. Bandwidth allocated to a virtual machine is the sum of all outbound traffic across all network interfaces attached to a virtual machine. In other words, the allocated bandwidth is per virtual machine, regardless of how many network interfaces are attached to the virtual machine. To learn how many network interfaces different Azure VM sizes support, see AzureWindowsandLinuxVM sizes.
Expected network throughput
Expected outbound throughput and the number of network interfaces supported by each VM size is detailed in AzureWindowsandLinuxVM sizes. Select a type, such as General purpose, then select a size and series on the resulting page, such as the Dv2-series. Each series has a table with networking specifications in the last column titled,
Max NICs / Expected network performance (Mbps).
The throughput limit applies to the virtual machine. Throughput is unaffected by the following factors:
Number of network interfaces: The bandwidth limit is cumulative of all outbound traffic from the virtual machine.
Number of network interfaces: The bandwidth limit is cumulative of all outbound traffic from the virtual machine.
Accelerated networking: Though the feature can be helpful in achieving the published limit, it doesn't change the limit.
Accelerated networking: Though the feature can be helpful in achieving the published limit, it doesn't change the limit.
Traffic destination: All destinations count toward the outbound limit.
Traffic destination: All destinations count toward the outbound limit.
Protocol: All outbound traffic over all protocols counts towards the limit.
Protocol: All outbound traffic over all protocols counts towards the limit.
Network flow limits
The number of network connections on a virtual machine at any moment can affect its network performance. The Azure networking stack uses data structures calledflowsto track each direction of a TCP/UDP connection. For a typical TCP/UDP connection, it creates two flows: one for inbound traffic and another for outbound traffic. A Five-tuple, consisting of protocol, local IP address, remote IP address, local port, and remote port, identifies each flow.
Data transfer between endpoints requires creation of several flows in addition to flows that perform the data transfer. Some examples are flows created for DNS resolution and flows created for load balancer health probes. Network virtual appliances (NVAs) such as gateways, proxies, firewalls, see flows created for connections terminated at the appliance and originated by the appliance.

Flow limits and active connections recommendations
Today, the Azure networking stack supports 1M total flows (500k inbound and 500k outbound) for a VM. Total active connections handled by a VM in different scenarios are as follows.
VMs that belong to a virtual network can handle 500kactive connectionsfor all VM sizes with 500kactive flows in each direction.
VMs that belong to a virtual network can handle 500kactive connectionsfor all VM sizes with 500kactive flows in each direction.
VMs with NVAs such as gateway, proxy, firewall can handle 250kactive connectionswith 500kactive flows in each directiondue to the forwarding and more new flow creation on new connection setup to the next hop as shown in the previous diagram.
VMs with NVAs such as gateway, proxy, firewall can handle 250kactive connectionswith 500kactive flows in each directiondue to the forwarding and more new flow creation on new connection setup to the next hop as shown in the previous diagram.
Once this limit is hit, other connections are dropped. Connection establishment and termination rates can also affect network performance as connection establishment and termination shares CPU with packet processing routines. We recommend that you benchmark workloads against expected traffic patterns and scale out workloads appropriately to match your performance needs.
Metrics are available inAzure Monitorto track the number of network flows and the flow creation rate on your VM or Virtual Machine Scale Sets instances. It's possible that the number of flows tracked by your VM guest OS is different than the number of flows tracked by the Azure network stack for various reasons. To ensure your network connections aren't dropped, use the Inbound and Outbound Flows metric.

Next steps
Optimize network throughput for a virtual machine operating system
Optimize network throughput for a virtual machine operating system
Test network throughputfor a virtual machine.
Test network throughputfor a virtual machine.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources