Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Plan your Azure Monitor implementation
Article
2025-03-19
2 contributors
In this article
This article describes the things that you should consider before starting your implementation. Proper planning helps you choose the configuration options to meet your business requirements.
To start learning about high-level monitoring concepts and guidance about defining requirements for your monitoring environment, see theCloud monitoring guide, which is part of theMicrosoft Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure.
Define a strategy
First,formulate a monitoring strategyto clarify the goals and requirements of your plan. The strategy defines your particular requirements, the configuration that best meets those requirements, and processes to use the monitoring environment to maximize your applications' performance and reliability.
SeeMonitoring strategy for cloud deployment models, which assist in comparing completely cloud based monitoring with a hybrid model.
Gather required information
Before you determine the details of your implementation, gather this information:
What needs to be monitored?
Focus on your critical applications and the components they depend on to reduce monitoring and the complexity of your monitoring environment. SeeCloud monitoring guide: Collect the right datafor guidance on defining the data that you require.
Who needs to have access and who needs be notified?
Determine which users need access to monitoring data and which users need to be notified when an issue is detected. These may be application and resource owners, or you may have a centralized monitoring team. This information determines how you configure permissions for data access and notifications for alerts. You may also decide to configure custom workbooks to present particular sets of information to different users.
Consider service level agreement (SLA) requirements
Your organization may have SLAs that define your commitments for performance and uptime of your applications. Take these SLAs into consideration when configuring time sensitive features of Azure Monitor such as alerts. Learn aboutdata latency in Azure Monitorwhich affects the responsiveness of monitoring scenarios and your ability to meet SLAs.
Identify supporting monitoring services and products
Azure Monitor is designed to address health and status monitoring. A complete monitoring solution usually involves multiple Azure services and may include other products to achieve othermonitoring objectives.
Consider using these other products and services along with Azure Monitor:
Security monitoring solutions
While the operational data stored in Azure Monitor might be useful for investigating security incidents, other services in Azure were designed to monitor security. Security monitoring in Azure is performed by Microsoft Defender for Cloud and Microsoft Sentinel.
System Center Operations Manager
If you have an existing investment in System Center Operations Manager for monitoring on-premises resources and workloads running on your virtual machines, you may choose tomigrate this monitoring to Azure Monitoror continue to use both products together in a hybrid configuration.
SeeCloud monitoring guide: Monitoring platforms overviewfor a comparison of products. SeeMonitoring strategy for cloud deployment modelsfor how to use the two products in a hybrid configuration and determine the most appropriate model for your environment.
Next steps
SeeConfigure data collectionfor steps and recommendations to configure data collection in Azure Monitor.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources