Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Named Entity Recognition (NER) in Azure AI Language?
Article
2025-02-21
4 contributors
In this article
Named Entity Recognition (NER) is one of the features offered byAzure AI Language, a collection of machine learning and AI algorithms in the cloud for developing intelligent applications that involve written language. The NER feature can identify and categorize entities in unstructured text. For example: people, places, organizations, and quantities. The prebuilt NER feature has a preset list ofrecognized entities. The custom NER feature allows you to train the model to recognize specialized entities specific to your use case.
Quickstartsare getting-started instructions to guide you through making requests to the service.
How-to guidescontain instructions for using the service in more specific or customized ways.
Theconceptual articlesprovide in-depth explanations of the service's functionality and features.
Note
Entity Resolutionwas upgraded to theEntity Metadatastarting in API version 2023-04-15-preview. If you're calling the preview version of the API equal or newer than 2023-04-15-preview, check out theEntity Metadataarticle to use the resolution feature.
Typical workflow
To use this feature, you submit data for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no added customization to the model used on your data.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Stream or store the response locally.
Stream or store the response locally.
Get started with named entity recognition
To use named entity recognition, you submit raw unstructured text for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no additional customization to the model used on your data. There are two ways to use named entity recognition:
Reference documentation and code samples
As you use this feature in your applications, see the following reference documentation and samples for Azure AI Language:
Responsible AI
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who use it, the people who are affected by it, and the environment in which it's deployed. Read thetransparency note for NERto learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems. You can also see the following articles for more information:
Transparency note for Azure AI Language
Integration and responsible use
Data, privacy, and security
Scenarios
Enhance search capabilities and search indexing - Customers can build knowledge graphs based on entities detected in documents to enhance document search as tags.
Automate business processes - For example, when reviewing insurance claims, recognized entities like name and location could be highlighted to facilitate the review. Or a support ticket could be generated with a customer's name and company automatically from an email.
Customer analysis – Determine the most popular information conveyed by customers in reviews, emails, and calls to determine the most relevant topics that get brought up and determine trends over time.
Next steps
There are two ways to get started using the Named Entity Recognition (NER) feature:
Azure AI Foundryis a web-based platform that lets you use several Language service features without needing to write code.
Thequickstart articlefor instructions on making requests to the service using the REST API and client library SDK.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources