Use LzLabs Software Defined Mainframe (SDM) in an Azure VM deployment
LzLabs Software Defined Mainframe (SDM) significantly reduces the risk and complexity of legacy workload rehosting by eliminating the need to find, modify, and recompile source code of legacy applications. This approach enables z/Architecture binary executable programs to operate at native speeds on x86_64 architecture computers running an open systems software stack, opening the path to legacy modernization.
Architecture
Download anSVG fileof this architecture.
Workflow
LzLabs SDM applications are accessed just like ordinary mainframe applications via a 3270 terminal. You can use any terminal emulator you like. For management, administration, and other activities, theLzWorkbench clientis used. The server component runs on the SDM VM.
The port access is typically configured to adapt to the security requirements of the customer.
For a secure implementation of SDM, a web services front end should be implemented that consists of:Azure Application Gatewayfor any CICS APIs accessing via the web,Azure Bastionfor secure access to manage the VMs,and anAzure Load Balancer.
Azure Application Gatewayfor any CICS APIs accessing via the web,
Azure Bastionfor secure access to manage the VMs,
and anAzure Load Balancer.
SDM can be configured for failover with virtual network (VNet) peering to the backup, disaster recovery (DR), and Secondary Azure regions. This improves the availability of SDM for production workloads because Azure keeps a consistent replica in case the initial VM goes offline.
The SDM virtual machine in the production environment is replicated and kept in sync in the Failover Region byAzure Site Recovery. This service keeps the main OS disk for production and the attached disk images in sync with the Secondary Region SDM. It does this for all attached disks except the disk responsible for index file processing (see item 10). Site Recovery is also used to keep all of the other VM images in sync with the Secondary Region.
The database in this architecture isPostgreSQL IaaS. Currently, Azure PostgreSQL Service cannot be used, and PostgreSQL IaaS must be used with SDM in deployments. This is because of a limitation in Azure PostgreSQL for processing user-defined data types (UDT). The database instance in the Secondary Region is kept up to date with the Write Ahead Transaction Log. This allows for cross-region failover. When failover occurs, the mode will be set to active. The same process is used to keep the production failover database transactionally consistent within the Production Region. By using the Write Ahead Transaction Log to keep these two replicas in sync, the database tier is highly available.Note:For best performance, the database VM and the SDM VM must be placed in anAzure proximity placement group.
A web services front end needs to be deployed for the DR Region in order to maintain secure access to the system. Many mainframe workloads have an API web services layer to access CICS transactions and DB2 data.
For RACF and Top Secret identity integration using Active Directory extensions, LzVault provides authentication and authorization in Azure for the security rules migrated from the mainframe.
The Barman Server is configured in the Data Tier. This provides snapshot replicas of the PostgreSQL database for point-in-time recovery within both the Production Region and the Secondary Region.
As mentioned in item 5, the disk that maintains the indexed file processing for SDM needs to be synchronized across regions using a database mirroring solution. This is because Azure Site Recovery cannot guarantee the transaction consistency needed for a database. Since the indexed file processing is not within PostgreSQL, a solution must be used that can provide this.
To accommodate the scheduling of batch job processing, a scheduler such asAzure Logic Appsor SMA must be used.
To provide availability, there are two SDM VMs deployed into an Azure availability set.Azure Load Balancerprovides load balancing services to the two VMs. State is shared between the two VMs using anAzure shared disk. This is replicated via DRDB to the DR instance.
Components
Azure Virtual Machinesis one of several types of on-demand, scalable computing resources that Azure offers. An Azure virtual machine (VM) gives you the flexibility of virtualization without having to buy and maintain the physical hardware that runs it.
Virtual networks (VNets)are the fundamental building block for your private network in Azure Virtual Network. Virtual Network enables many types of Azure resources, including VMs, to securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks. Virtual Network is similar to a traditional network that you'd operate in your own datacenter but with the added benefits of Azure's infrastructure, such as scaling, availability, and isolation.
Azure Virtual Network Interfaceis a network interface controller (NIC) that enables an Azure VM to communicate with the internet, other resources in Azure, and on-premises resources. As shown in this architecture, you can add more NICs to the same VM, allowing the Solaris child-VMs to have their own dedicated network interface device and IP address.
Azure SSD managed disksare block-level storage volumes that are managed by Azure and used with Azure Virtual Machines. The available types of disks are Ultra Disk, Premium SSDs, Standard SSDs, and Standard Hard Disk Drives (HDDs). For this architecture, we recommend either Premium SSDs or Ultra Disk SSDs.
Azure StorageandAzure Filesoffer fully managed file shares in the cloud that are accessible via the industry- standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. Azure file shares can be mounted concurrently by cloud or on-premises deployments of Windows, Linux, and macOS.
Azure ExpressRoutelets you extend your on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection facilitated by a connectivity provider. With ExpressRoute, you can establish connections to Microsoft cloud services, such as Microsoft Azure and Office 365.
Azure SQL Databaseis a fully managed platform as a service (PaaS) database engine that handles most of the database management functions without user involvement, including upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring. Azure SQL Database is always running on the latest stable version of the SQL Server database engine and patched OS with 99.99-percent availability. PaaS capabilities that are built into Azure SQL Database enable you to focus on the domain-specific database administration and optimization activities that are critical for your business.
Scenario details
LzLabs Software Defined Mainframe (SDM) is a workload rehosting and mainframe application modernization platform. SDM enables mainframe legacy applications to execute on open systems with no requirement for source-code changes, recompilation, or conversion of data types. SDM also has features that allow legacy applications to be gracefully modernized to contemporary languages and implementations, without compromising the integrity or operation of the system as a whole.
SDM significantly reduces the risk and complexity of legacy workload rehosting by eliminating the need to find, modify, and recompile source code of legacy applications. This approach enables z/Architecture binary executable programs to operate at native speeds on x86_64 architecture computers running an open systems software stack, opening the path to legacy modernization.
Potential use cases
No source code.LzLabs is a solution for customers who have mainframe workloads but do not have the source code for the running applications. This can happen if the solution was a customizable off-the-shelf solution (COTS) purchased from an independent software vendor that did not the source code to the IP. Also, since many of these COBOL-based applications were written long ago, the source code could have been lost or misplaced. LzLabs solves this problem because all that is needed are the load modules (binaries) for execution in SDM.
Customer has source code and wants to rehost.The customer might still have the source code and simply want to rehost their mainframe workloads to reduce cost and enjoy the benefits of a cloud platform like Azure. The COBOL code can be maintained in the SDM in a modern DevOps environment.
Failover.To increase uptime and avoid potential disruptions in business continuity, customers can use LzLabs SDM for a failover environment. In this case, the load modules are loaded into the SDM and used as a secondary environment if the production environment becomes unavailable.
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeMicrosoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.
Reliability
Reliability ensures your application can meet the commitments you make to your customers. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Reliability.
Recovery for the application tier is provided with Site Recovery as shown in the diagram.
Since LzLabs SDM leverages PostgreSQL for the database tier, availability is provided with a write-ahead transaction log. This ensures that the secondary database is transactionally consistent with the production database.
Security
Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the abuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Security.
Access to Azure assets is managed via the Azure portal and/or Azure Resource Manager.
Security for the SDM is managed using the Vault component of SDM. This migrates the security and permissions from RACF or Top Secret into an LDAP-based environment for management in Azure.
Cost Optimization
Cost Optimization is about looking at ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Cost Optimization.
To estimate the cost of Azure products and configurations, visit theAzure pricing calculator.
To learn more about pricing for LzLabs Software Defined Mainframe products and their related services, visit theLzLabs website.
Operational Excellence
Operational Excellence covers the operations processes that deploy an application and keep it running in production. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Operational Excellence.
The Azure environment in the diagram is managed either with the Azure portal orAzure Resource Manager templates and scripts. This allows for the administration of assets (like resizing) and managing security and access.
Management of the actual SDM environment is provided via the LzWorkbench administration tool. This allows for the creation and management of execution environments in the SDM.
Performance Efficiency
Performance Efficiency is the ability of your workload to scale to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Performance Efficiency.
When migrating mainframe workloads to Azure, keep in mind that the MIPS per vCPU ratio ranges from 50 to 150 MIPS per vCPU.  This can vary depending on the type of workload. You will need to profile the mainframe workload for online and batch environments, and then size resources accordingly.
Currently, the solution for scaling SDM is to scale up the virtual machines by adding more vCPUs and memory.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Jonathon Frost| Principal Software Engineer
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
For more information, contact legacy2azure@microsoft.com
See the following resources from LzLabs:
LzLabs website
LzLabs Software Defined Mainframe product overview
LzWorkbench
LzLabs video library
See the following documentation from Microsoft:
Virtual machines in Azure
Azure Virtual Network documentation
Azure Resource Manager template documentation
Azure ExpressRoute documentation
Demystifying mainframe to Azure migration white paper
Azure Mainframe Migration center
Mainframe migration overview
Mainframe workloads supported on Azure
Mainframe rehosting on Azure virtual machines
Related resources
See the following related articles on Azure Architecture Center:
Azure mainframe and midrange architecture concepts and patterns
Migrate AIX workloads to Azure with Skytap
Refactor mainframe applications with Astadia
Refactor mainframe applications with Advanced