Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure roles, Microsoft Entra roles, and classic subscription administrator roles
Article
2025-03-12
15 contributors
In this article
If you're new to Azure, you may find it a little challenging to understand all the different roles in Azure. This article helps explain the following roles and when you would use each:
Azure roles
Microsoft Entra roles
Classic subscription administrator roles
How the roles are related
To better understand roles in Azure, it helps to know some of the history. When Azure was initially released, access to resources was managed with just three administrator roles: Account Administrator, Service Administrator, and Co-Administrator. Later, Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) was added. Azure RBAC is a newer authorization system that provides fine-grained access management to Azure resources. Azure RBAC includes many built-in roles, can be assigned at different scopes, and allows you to create your own custom roles. To manage resources in Microsoft Entra ID, such as users, groups, and domains, there are several Microsoft Entra roles.
The following diagram is a high-level view of how the Azure roles, Microsoft Entra roles, and classic subscription administrator roles are related.

Azure roles
Azure RBACis an authorization system built onAzure Resource Managerthat provides fine-grained access management to Azure resources, such as compute and storage. Azure RBAC includes over 100 built-in roles. There are five fundamental Azure roles. The first three apply to all resource types:
Grants full access to manage all resources
Assign roles in Azure RBAC
Grants full access to manage all resources
Can't assign roles in Azure RBAC
Can't manage assignments in Azure Blueprints or share image galleries
View Azure resources
Manage user access to Azure resources
Assign roles in Azure RBAC
Assign themselves or others the Owner role
Can't manage access using other ways, such as Azure Policy
Manage user access to Azure resources
Assign roles in Azure RBAC
Assign themselves or others the Owner role
The rest of the built-in roles allow management of specific Azure resources. For example, theVirtual Machine Contributorrole allows the user to create and manage virtual machines. For a list of all the built-in roles, seeAzure built-in roles.
Only the Azure portal and the Azure Resource Manager APIs support Azure RBAC. Users, groups, and applications that are assigned Azure roles can't use theAzure classic deployment model APIs.
In the Azure portal, role assignments using Azure RBAC appear on theAccess control (IAM)page. This page can be found throughout the portal, such as management groups, subscriptions, resource groups, and various resources.

When you click theRolestab, you'll see the list of built-in and custom roles.

For more information, seeAssign Azure roles using the Azure portal.

Microsoft Entra roles
Microsoft Entra rolesare used to manage Microsoft Entra resources in a directory such as create or edit users, assign administrative roles to others, reset user passwords, manage user licenses, and manage domains. The following table describes a few of the more important Microsoft Entra roles.
Manage access to all administrative features in Microsoft Entra ID, as well as services that federate to Microsoft Entra ID
Assign administrator roles to others
Reset the password for any user and all other administrators
Create and manage all aspects of users and groups
Manage support tickets
Monitor service health
Change passwords for users, Helpdesk administrators, and other User Administrators
Make purchases
Manage subscriptions
Manage support tickets
Monitors service health
In the Azure portal, you can see the list of Microsoft Entra roles on theRoles and administratorspage. For a list of all the Microsoft Entra roles, seeAdministrator role permissions in Microsoft Entra ID.


Differences between Azure roles and Microsoft Entra roles
At a high level, Azure roles control permissions to manage Azure resources, while Microsoft Entra roles control permissions to manage Microsoft Entra resources. The following table compares some of the differences.

Do Azure roles and Microsoft Entra roles overlap?
By default, Azure roles and Microsoft Entra roles don't span Azure and Microsoft Entra ID. However, if a Global Administrator elevates their access by choosing theAccess management for Azure resourcesswitch in the Azure portal, the Global Administrator will be granted theUser Access Administratorrole (an Azure role) on all subscriptions for a particular tenant. The User Access Administrator role enables the user to grant other users access to Azure resources. This switch can be helpful to regain access to a subscription. For more information, seeElevate access to manage all Azure subscriptions and management groups.
Several Microsoft Entra roles span Microsoft Entra ID and Microsoft 365, such as the Global Administrator and User Administrator roles. For example, if you're a member of the Global Administrator role, you have global administrator capabilities in Microsoft Entra ID and Microsoft 365, such as making changes to Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft SharePoint. However, by default, the Global Administrator doesn't have access to Azure resources.

Classic subscription administrator roles
Important
As ofAugust 31, 2024, Azure classic administrator roles (along with Azure classic resources and Azure Service Manager) are retired and no longer supported. Starting onApril 30, 2025, any Co-Administrator or Service Administrator role assignments will lose access. If you still have active Co-Administrator or Service Administrator role assignments, convert these role assignments to Azure RBAC immediately.
For more information, seeAzure classic subscription administrators.
Account Administrator, Service Administrator, and Co-Administrator are the three classic subscription administrator roles in Azure. Classic subscription administrators have full access to the Azure subscription. They can manage resources using the Azure portal, Azure Resource Manager APIs, and the classic deployment model APIs. The account that is used to sign up for Azure is automatically set as both the Account Administrator and Service Administrator. Then, additional Co-Administrators can be added. The Service Administrator and the Co-Administrators have the equivalent access of users who have been assigned the Owner role (an Azure role) at the subscription scope. The following table describes the differences between these three classic subscription administrative roles.
Can access theAzure portaland manage billing
Manage billing for all subscriptions in the account
Create new subscriptions
Cancel subscriptions
Change the billing for a subscription
Change the Service Administrator
Can't cancel subscriptions unless they have the Service Administrator or subscription Owner role
Manage services in theAzure portal
Cancel the subscription
Assign users to the Co-Administrator role
Same access privileges as the Service Administrator, but can’t change the association of subscriptions to Microsoft Entra directories
Assign users to the Co-Administrator role, but can't change the Service Administrator
In the Azure portal, you can manage Co-Administrators or view the Service Administrator by using theClassic administratorstab.

For more information, seeAzure classic subscription administrators.
Azure account and Azure subscriptions
An Azure account is used to establish a billing relationship. An Azure account is a user identity, one or more Azure subscriptions, and an associated set of Azure resources. The person who creates the account is the Account Administrator for all subscriptions created in that account. That person is also the default Service Administrator for the subscription.
Azure subscriptions help you organize access to Azure resources. They also help you control how resource usage is reported, billed, and paid for. Each subscription can have a different billing and payment setup, so you can have different subscriptions and different plans by office, department, project, and so on. Most services belong to a subscription, and the subscription ID may be required for programmatic operations.
Each subscription is associated with a Microsoft Entra directory. To find the directory the subscription is associated with, openSubscriptionsin the Azure portal and then select a subscription to see the directory.
Accounts and subscriptions are managed in theAzure portal.
Next steps
Assign Azure roles using the Azure portal
Assign Microsoft Entra roles to users
Roles for Microsoft 365 services in Microsoft Entra ID
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources