Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
NFS Azure file shares
Article
2025-03-30
11 contributors
In this article
Azure Files offers two industry-standard file system protocols for mounting Azure file shares: theServer Message Block (SMB)protocol and theNetwork File System (NFS)protocol, allowing you to pick the protocol that is the best fit for your workload. Azure file shares don't support accessing an individual Azure file share with both the SMB and NFS protocols, although you can create SMB and NFS file shares within the same FileStorage storage account. Azure Files offers enterprise-grade file shares that can scale up to meet your storage needs and can be accessed concurrently by thousands of clients.
This article covers NFS Azure file shares. For information about SMB Azure file shares, seeSMB file shares in Azure Files.
Important
NFS Azure file shares aren't supported for Windows. Before using NFS Azure file shares in production, seeTroubleshoot NFS Azure file sharesfor a list of known issues. NFS access control lists (ACLs) aren't supported.
Applies to
Common scenarios
NFS file shares are often used in the following scenarios:
Backing storage for Linux/UNIX-based applications, such as line-of-business applications written using Linux or POSIX file system APIs (even if they don't require POSIX-compliance).
Workloads that require POSIX-compliant file shares, case sensitivity, or Unix style permissions (UID/GID).
New application and service development, particularly if that application or service has a requirement for random I/O and hierarchical storage.
Features
Fully POSIX-compliant file system.
Hard link support.
Symbolic link support.
NFS file shares currently only support most features from the4.1 protocol specification. Some features such as delegations and callback of all kinds, Kerberos authentication, ACLs, and encryption-in-transit aren't supported.
Note
Creating a hard link from an existing symbolic link isn't currently supported.
Security and networking
All data stored in Azure Files is encrypted at rest using Azure storage service encryption (SSE). Storage service encryption works similarly to BitLocker on Windows: data is encrypted beneath the file system level. Because data is encrypted beneath the Azure file share's file system, as it's encoded to disk, you don't have to have access to the underlying key on the client to read or write to the Azure file share. Encryption at rest applies to both the SMB and NFS protocols.
For encryption in transit, Azure provides a layer of encryption for all data in transit between Azure datacenters usingMACSec. Through this, encryption exists when data is transferred between Azure data centers.
Unlike Azure Files using the SMB protocol, file shares using the NFS protocol don't offer user-based authentication. Authentication for NFS shares is based on the configured network security rules. Due to this, to ensure only secure connections are established to your NFS share, you must set up either a private endpoint or a service endpoint for your storage account.
A private endpoint (also called a private link) gives your storage account a private, static IP address within your virtual network, preventing connectivity interruptions from dynamic IP address changes. Traffic to your storage account stays within peered virtual networks, including those in other regions and on premises. Standarddata processing ratesapply.
If you don't require a static IP address, you can enable aservice endpointfor Azure Files within the virtual network. A service endpoint configures storage accounts to allow access only from specific subnets. The allowed subnets can belong to a virtual network in the same subscription or a different subscription, including those that belong to a different Microsoft Entra tenant. There's no extra charge for using service endpoints. However, be aware that a rare event such as a zonal outage could cause the underlying IP address of the storage account to change. While the data will still be available on the file share, the client would require a remount of the share.
If you want to access shares from on-premises, then you must set up a VPN or ExpressRoute in addition to a private endpoint. Requests that don't originate from the following sources will be rejected:
A private endpoint
Azure VPN GatewayPoint-to-site (P2S) VPNSite-to-Site
Point-to-site (P2S) VPN
Site-to-Site
ExpressRoute
A restricted public endpoint
For more details on the available networking options, seeAzure Files networking considerations.
Support for Azure Storage features
The following table shows the current level of support for Azure Storage features in accounts that have the NFS 4.1 feature enabled.
The status of items that appear in this table might change over time as support continues to expand.
Regional availability
NFS Azure file shares are supported in all regions that support SSD file shares. SeeAzure products available by region.
Performance
NFS Azure file shares are only offered on SSD file shares, which store data on solid-state drives (SSD). The IOPS and throughput of NFS shares scale with the provisioned capacity. See theprovisioned v1 modelsection of theUnderstanding billingarticle to understand the formulas for IOPS, IO bursting, and throughput. The average IO latencies are low-single-digit-millisecond for small IO size, while average metadata latencies are high-single-digit-millisecond. Metadata heavy operations such as untar and workloads like WordPress might face additional latencies due to the high number of open and close operations.
Note
You can use thenconnectLinux mount option to improve performance for NFS Azure file shares at scale. For more information, seeImprove NFS Azure file share performance.
nconnect
Workloads
Important
Before using NFS Azure file shares in production, seeTroubleshoot NFS Azure file sharesfor a list of known issues.
NFS has been validated to work well with workloads such as SAP application layer, database backups, database replication, messaging queues, home directories for general purpose file servers, and content repositories for application workloads.
Next steps
Create an NFS file share
Compare access to Azure Files, Blob Storage, and Azure NetApp Files with NFS
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources