Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Government?
Article
2022-09-20
9 contributors
In this article
US government agencies or their partners interested in cloud services that meet government security and compliance requirements, can be confident thatMicrosoft Azure Governmentprovides world-class security and compliance. Azure Government delivers a dedicated cloud enabling government agencies and their partners to transform mission-critical workloads to the cloud. Azure Government services can accommodate data that is subject to variousUS government regulations and requirements.
To provide you with the highest level of security and compliance, Azure Government uses physically isolated datacenters and networks located in the US only. Compared to Azure global, Azure Government provides an extra layer of protection to customers through contractual commitments regarding storage of customer data in the US and limiting potential access to systems processing customer data toscreened US persons.
Azure Government customers (US federal, state, and local government or their partners) are subject to validation of eligibility. If there's a question about eligibility for Azure Government, you should consult your account team. To sign up for trial, request yourtrial subscription.
The following video provides a good introduction to Azure Government:
Compare Azure Government and global Azure
Azure Government offersInfrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS),Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), andSoftware-as-a-Service (SaaS)cloud service models based on the same underlying technologies as global Azure. For service availability in Azure Government, seeProducts available by region. Services available in Azure Government are listed by category and whether they're Generally Available or available through Preview.
There are some key differences that developers working on applications hosted in Azure Government must be aware of. For detailed information, seeGuidance for developers. As a developer, you must know how to connect to Azure Government and once you connect you'll mostly have the same experience as in global Azure. To see feature variations and usage limitations between Azure Government and global Azure, seeCompare Azure Government and global Azureand click on individual service.
Region pairing
Azure relies onpaired regionsto delivergeo-redundant storage. The following table shows the primary and secondary region pairings in Azure Government.
Get started
To start using Azure Government, first check outGuidance for developers. Then, use one of the following guides that show you how to connect to Azure Government:
Connect with Azure Government portal
Connect with Azure CLI
Connect with PowerShell
Deploy with Azure DevOps Services
Develop with SQL Server Management Studio
Develop with Storage API on Azure Government
Next steps
Acquiring and accessing Azure Government
Azure Government security
Azure Government compliance
Azure compliance
ViewYouTube videos
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources