Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Authorize access to queues using Microsoft Entra ID
Article
2023-10-12
8 contributors
In this article
Azure Storage supports using Microsoft Entra ID to authorize requests to queue data. With Microsoft Entra ID, you can use Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to grant permissions to a security principal, which may be a user, group, or application service principal. The security principal is authenticated by Microsoft Entra ID to return an OAuth 2.0 token. The token can then be used to authorize a request against the Queue service.
Authorization with Microsoft Entra ID provides superior security and ease of use over Shared Key authorization. Microsoft recommends using Microsoft Entra authorization with your queue applications when possible to assure access with minimum required privileges.
Authorization with Microsoft Entra ID is available for all general-purpose storage accounts in all public regions and national clouds. Only storage accounts created with the Azure Resource Manager deployment model support Microsoft Entra authorization.

Overview of Microsoft Entra ID for queues
When a security principal (a user, group, or application) attempts to access a queue resource, the request must be authorized, unless it's a queue available for anonymous access. With Microsoft Entra ID, access to a resource is a two-step process:
First, the security principal's identity is authenticated and an OAuth 2.0 token is returned.The authentication step requires that an application request an OAuth 2.0 access token at runtime. If an application is running from within an Azure entity such as an Azure VM, a Virtual Machine Scale Set, or an Azure Functions app, it can use amanaged identityto access queue data.
First, the security principal's identity is authenticated and an OAuth 2.0 token is returned.
The authentication step requires that an application request an OAuth 2.0 access token at runtime. If an application is running from within an Azure entity such as an Azure VM, a Virtual Machine Scale Set, or an Azure Functions app, it can use amanaged identityto access queue data.
Next, the token is passed as part of a request to the Queue service and used by the service to authorize access to the specified resource.The authorization step requires that one or more Azure RBAC roles be assigned to the security principal making the request. For more information, seeAssign Azure roles for access rights.
Next, the token is passed as part of a request to the Queue service and used by the service to authorize access to the specified resource.
The authorization step requires that one or more Azure RBAC roles be assigned to the security principal making the request. For more information, seeAssign Azure roles for access rights.

Use a Microsoft Entra account with portal, PowerShell, or Azure CLI
To learn about how to access data in the Azure portal with a Microsoft Entra account, seeData access from the Azure portal. To learn how to call Azure PowerShell or Azure CLI commands with a Microsoft Entra account, seeData access from PowerShell or Azure CLI.

Use Microsoft Entra ID to authorize access in application code
To authorize access to Azure Storage with Microsoft Entra ID, you can use one of the following client libraries to acquire an OAuth 2.0 token:
The Azure Identity client library is recommended for most development scenarios.
TheMicrosoft Authentication Library (MSAL)may be suitable for certain advanced scenarios.
The Azure Identity client library simplifies the process of getting an OAuth 2.0 access token for authorization with Microsoft Entra ID via theAzure SDK. The latest versions of the Azure Storage client libraries for .NET, Java, Python, JavaScript, and Go integrate with the Azure Identity libraries for each of those languages to provide a simple and secure means to acquire an access token for authorization of Azure Storage requests.
An advantage of the Azure Identity client library is that it enables you to use the same code to acquire the access token whether your application is running in the development environment or in Azure. The Azure Identity client library returns an access token for a security principal. When your code is running in Azure, the security principal may be a managed identity for Azure resources, a service principal, or a user or group. In the development environment, the client library provides an access token for either a user or a service principal for testing purposes.
The access token returned by the Azure Identity client library is encapsulated in a token credential. You can then use the token credential to get a service client object to use in performing authorized operations against Azure Storage. A simple way to get the access token and token credential is to use theDefaultAzureCredentialclass that is provided by the Azure Identity client library.DefaultAzureCredentialattempts to get the token credential by sequentially trying several different credential types.DefaultAzureCredentialworks in both the development environment and in Azure.
The following table points to additional information for authorizing access to data in various scenarios:
While Microsoft recommends using the Azure Identity client library when possible, the MSAL library may be appropriate to use in certain advanced scenarios. For more information, seeLearn about MSAL.
When you use MSAL to acquire an OAuth token for access to Azure Storage, you need to provide a Microsoft Entra resource ID. The Microsoft Entra resource ID indicates the audience for which a token that is issued can be used to provide access to an Azure resource. In the case of Azure Storage, the resource ID may be specific to a single storage account, or it may apply to any storage account.
When you provide a resource ID that is specific to a single storage account and service, the resource ID is used to acquire a token for authorizing requests to the specified account and service only. The following table lists the value to use for the resource ID, based on the cloud you're working with. Replace<account-name>with the name of your storage account.
<account-name>
https://<account-name>.queue.core.windows.net
https://<account-name>.queue.core.usgovcloudapi.net
https://<account-name>.queue.core.chinacloudapi.cn
You can also provide a resource ID that applies to any storage account, as shown in the following table. This resource ID is the same for all public and sovereign clouds, and is used to acquire a token for authorizing requests to any storage account.
https://storage.azure.com/
Assign Azure roles for access rights
Microsoft Entra authorizes access rights to secured resources through Azure RBAC. Azure Storage defines a set of  built-in RBAC roles that encompass common sets of permissions used to access queue data. You can also define custom roles for access to queue data. To learn more about assigning Azure roles for queue access, seeAssign an Azure role for access to queue data.
A Microsoft Entra security principal may be a user, a group, an application service principal, or amanaged identity for Azure resources. The RBAC roles that are assigned to a security principal determine the permissions that the principal will have. To learn more about assigning Azure roles for queue access, seeAssign an Azure role for access to queue data
In some cases you may need to enable fine-grained access to queue resources or to simplify permissions when you have a large number of role assignments for a storage resource. You can use Azure attribute-based access control (Azure ABAC) to configure conditions on role assignments. You can use conditions with acustom roleor select built-in roles. For more information about configuring conditions for Azure storage resources with ABAC, seeAuthorize access to queues using Azure role assignment conditions. For details about supported conditions for queue data operations, seeActions and attributes for Azure role assignment conditions for Azure queues.
Note
When you create an Azure Storage account, you are not automatically assigned permissions to access data via Microsoft Entra ID. You must explicitly assign yourself an Azure role for access to Queue Storage. You can assign it at the level of your subscription, resource group, storage account, or queue.
Resource scope
Before you assign an Azure RBAC role to a security principal, determine the scope of access that the security principal should have. Best practices dictate that it's always best to grant only the narrowest possible scope. Azure RBAC roles defined at a broader scope are inherited by the resources beneath them.
You can scope access to Azure queue resources at the following levels, beginning with the narrowest scope:
An individual queue.At this scope, a role assignment applies to messages in the queue, and to queue properties and metadata.
The storage account.At this scope, a role assignment applies to all queues and their messages.
The resource group.At this scope, a role assignment applies to all of the queues in all of the storage accounts in the resource group.
The subscription.At this scope, a role assignment applies to all of the queues in all of the storage accounts in all of the resource groups in the subscription.
A management group.At this scope, a role assignment applies to all of the queues in all of the storage accounts in all of the resource groups in all of the subscriptions in the management group.
For more information about scope for Azure RBAC role assignments, seeUnderstand scope for Azure RBAC.
Azure built-in roles for queues
Azure RBAC provides several built-in roles for authorizing access to queue data using Microsoft Entra ID and OAuth. Some examples of roles that provide permissions to data resources in Azure Storage include:
Storage Queue Data Contributor: Use to grant read/write/delete permissions to Azure queues.
Storage Queue Data Reader: Use to grant read-only permissions to Azure queues.
Storage Queue Data Message Processor: Use to grant peek, retrieve, and delete permissions to messages in Azure Storage queues.
Storage Queue Data Message Sender: Use to grant add permissions to messages in Azure Storage queues.
To learn how to assign an Azure built-in role to a security principal, seeAssign an Azure role for access to queue data. To learn how to list Azure RBAC roles and their permissions, seeList Azure role definitions.
For more information about how built-in roles are defined for Azure Storage, seeUnderstand role definitions. For information about creating Azure custom roles, seeAzure custom roles.
Only roles explicitly defined for data access permit a security principal to access queue data. Built-in roles such asOwner,Contributor, andStorage Account Contributorpermit a security principal to manage a storage account, but don't provide access to the queue data within that account via Microsoft Entra ID. However, if a role includesMicrosoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action, then a user to whom that role is assigned can access data in the storage account via Shared Key authorization with the account access keys. For more information, seeChoose how to authorize access to queue data in the Azure portal.
For detailed information about Azure built-in roles for Azure Storage for both the data services and the management service, see theStoragesection inAzure built-in roles for Azure RBAC. Additionally, for information about the different types of roles that provide permissions in Azure, seeAzure roles, Microsoft Entra roles, and classic subscription administrator roles.
Important
Azure role assignments may take up to 30 minutes to propagate.
Access permissions for data operations
For details on the permissions required to call specific Queue service operations, seePermissions for calling data operations.

Access data with a Microsoft Entra account
Access to queue data via the Azure portal, PowerShell, or Azure CLI can be authorized either by using the user's Microsoft Entra account or by using the account access keys (Shared Key authorization).
Caution
Authorization with Shared Key is not recommended as it may be less secure. For optimal security, disable authorization via Shared Key for your storage account, as described inPrevent Shared Key authorization for an Azure Storage account.
Use of access keys and connection strings should be limited to initial proof of concept apps or development prototypes that don't access production or sensitive data. Otherwise, the token-based authentication classes available in the Azure SDK should always be preferred when authenticating to Azure resources.
Microsoft recommends that clients use either Microsoft Entra ID or a shared access signature (SAS) to authorize access to data in Azure Storage. For more information, seeAuthorize operations for data access.
Data access from the Azure portal
The Azure portal can use either your Microsoft Entra account or the account access keys to access queue data in an Azure storage account. Which authorization scheme the Azure portal uses depends on the Azure roles that are assigned to you.
When you attempt to access queue data, the Azure portal first checks whether you've been assigned an Azure role withMicrosoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listkeys/action. If you've been assigned a role with this action, then the Azure portal uses the account key for accessing queue data via Shared Key authorization. If you haven't been assigned a role with this action, then the Azure portal attempts to access data using your Microsoft Entra account.
To access queue data from the Azure portal using your Microsoft Entra account, you need permissions to access queue data, and you also need permissions to navigate through the storage account resources in the Azure portal. The built-in roles provided by Azure Storage grant access to queue resources, but they don't grant permissions to storage account resources. For this reason, access to the portal also requires the assignment of an Azure Resource Manager role such as theReaderrole, scoped to the level of the storage account or higher. TheReaderrole grants the most restricted permissions, but another Azure Resource Manager role that grants access to storage account management resources is also acceptable. To learn more about how to assign permissions to users for data access in the Azure portal with a Microsoft Entra account, seeAssign an Azure role for access to queue data.
The Azure portal indicates which authorization scheme is in use when you navigate to a queue. For more information about data access in the portal, seeChoose how to authorize access to queue data in the Azure portal.
Data access from PowerShell or Azure CLI
Azure CLI and PowerShell support signing in with Microsoft Entra credentials. After you sign in, your session runs under those credentials. To learn more, see one of the following articles:
Choose how to authorize access to queue data with Azure CLI
Run PowerShell commands with Microsoft Entra credentials to access queue data
Next steps
Authorize access to data in Azure Storage
Assign an Azure role for access to queue data
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources