Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Prepare to deliver Extended Security Updates for Windows Server 2012
Article
2025-01-23
7 contributors
In this article
With Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2012 R2 having reached end of support on October 10, 2023, Azure Arc-enabled servers lets you enroll your existing Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 machines inExtended Security Updates (ESUs). Affording both cost flexibility and an enhanced delivery experience, Azure Arc better positions you to migrate to Azure.
The purpose of this article is to help you understand the benefits and how to prepare to use Arc-enabled servers to enable delivery of ESUs.
Note
Azure VMware Solutions (AVS) machines are eligible for free ESUs and should not enroll in ESUs enabled through Azure Arc.
Key benefits
Delivering ESUs to your Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 machines provides the following key benefits:
Pay-as-you-go:Flexibility to sign up for a monthly subscription service with the ability to migrate mid-year.
Pay-as-you-go:Flexibility to sign up for a monthly subscription service with the ability to migrate mid-year.
Azure billed:You can draw down from your existingMicrosoft Azure Consumption Commitment (MACC)and analyze your costs usingMicrosoft Cost Management and Billing.
Azure billed:You can draw down from your existingMicrosoft Azure Consumption Commitment (MACC)and analyze your costs usingMicrosoft Cost Management and Billing.
Built-in inventory:The coverage and enrollment status of Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 ESUs on eligible Arc-enabled servers are identified in the Azure portal, highlighting gaps and status changes.
Built-in inventory:The coverage and enrollment status of Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 ESUs on eligible Arc-enabled servers are identified in the Azure portal, highlighting gaps and status changes.
Keyless delivery:The enrollment of ESUs on Azure Arc-enabled Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 machines won't require the acquisition or activation of keys.
Keyless delivery:The enrollment of ESUs on Azure Arc-enabled Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 machines won't require the acquisition or activation of keys.
Access to Azure services
For Azure Arc-enabled servers enrolled in WS2012 ESUs enabled by Azure Arc, free access is provided to these Azure services from October 10, 2023:
Azure Update Manager- Unified management and governance of update compliance that includes not only Azure and hybrid machines, but also ESU update compliance for all your Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 machines.
Enrollment in ESUs does not impact Azure Update Manager. After enrollment in ESUs through Azure Arc, the server becomes eligible for ESU patches. These patches can be delivered through Azure Update Manager or any other patching solution. You'll still need to configure updates from Microsoft Updates or Windows Server Update Services.
Change Tracking and Inventory- Track changes in virtual machines hosted in Azure, on-premises, and other cloud environments.
Azure Policy Guest Configuration- Audit the configuration settings in a virtual machine. Guest configuration supports Azure VMs natively and non-Azure physical and virtual servers through Azure Arc-enabled servers.
Other Azure services through Azure Arc-enabled servers are available as well, with offerings such as:
Microsoft Defender for Cloud- As part of the cloud security posture management (CSPM) pillar, it provides server protections throughMicrosoft Defender for Serversto help protect you from various cyber threats and vulnerabilities.
Microsoft Sentinel- Collect security-related events and correlate them with other data sources.
Prepare delivery of ESUs
Plan and prepare to connect your machines to Azure Arc-enabled servers through the installation of theAzure Connected Machine agent(version 1.34 or higher) to establish a connection to Azure.After establishing this connection, you can then enroll your servers to receive Extended Security Updates (ESUs). Windows Server 2012 Extended Security Updates supports Windows Server 2012 and R2 Standard and Datacenter editions. Windows Server 2012 Storage is not supported.We recommend you deploy your machines to Azure Arc in preparation for when the related Azure services deliver supported functionality to manage ESU. Once these machines are onboarded to Azure Arc-enabled servers, you'll have visibility into their ESU coverage and enroll through the Azure portal or using Azure Policy. Billing for this service starts from October 2023 (i.e., after Windows Server 2012 end of support).NoteIn order to purchase ESUs, you must have Software Assurance through Volume Licensing Programs such as an Enterprise Agreement (EA), Enterprise Agreement Subscription (EAS), Enrollment for Education Solutions (EES), Server and Cloud Enrollment (SCE), or through Microsoft Open Value Programs. Alternatively, if your Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 machines are licensed through SPLA or with a Server Subscription, Software Assurance is not required to purchase ESUs.
Plan and prepare to connect your machines to Azure Arc-enabled servers through the installation of theAzure Connected Machine agent(version 1.34 or higher) to establish a connection to Azure.
After establishing this connection, you can then enroll your servers to receive Extended Security Updates (ESUs). Windows Server 2012 Extended Security Updates supports Windows Server 2012 and R2 Standard and Datacenter editions. Windows Server 2012 Storage is not supported.
We recommend you deploy your machines to Azure Arc in preparation for when the related Azure services deliver supported functionality to manage ESU. Once these machines are onboarded to Azure Arc-enabled servers, you'll have visibility into their ESU coverage and enroll through the Azure portal or using Azure Policy. Billing for this service starts from October 2023 (i.e., after Windows Server 2012 end of support).
Note
In order to purchase ESUs, you must have Software Assurance through Volume Licensing Programs such as an Enterprise Agreement (EA), Enterprise Agreement Subscription (EAS), Enrollment for Education Solutions (EES), Server and Cloud Enrollment (SCE), or through Microsoft Open Value Programs. Alternatively, if your Windows Server 2012/2012 R2 machines are licensed through SPLA or with a Server Subscription, Software Assurance is not required to purchase ESUs.
Download both the licensing package and servicing stack update (SSU) for the Azure Arc-enabled server as documented atKB5031043: Procedure to continue receiving security updates after extended support has ended on October 10, 2023.
Download both the licensing package and servicing stack update (SSU) for the Azure Arc-enabled server as documented atKB5031043: Procedure to continue receiving security updates after extended support has ended on October 10, 2023.
Deployment options
There are several at-scale onboarding options for Azure Arc-enabled servers:
Run aCustom Task Sequencethrough Configuration Manager.
Run aCustom Task Sequencethrough Configuration Manager.
Deploy aScheduled Task through Group Policy.
Deploy aScheduled Task through Group Policy.
UseVMware vCenter managed VMsthrough Azure Arc.
UseVMware vCenter managed VMsthrough Azure Arc.
UseSCVMM managed VMsthrough Azure Arc.
UseSCVMM managed VMsthrough Azure Arc.
Note
Delivery of ESUs through Azure Arc to virtual machines running on Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) is not recommended. VDI systems should use Multiple Activation Keys (MAK) to apply ESUs. SeeAccess your Multiple Activation Key from the Microsoft 365 Admin Centerto learn more.
Networking
Ensure your machines have the necessary network connectivity to Azure Arc. Connectivity options include:
Public endpoint
Proxy server
Private link or Azure Express Route.
Review thenetworking prerequisitesto prepare non-Azure environments for deployment to Azure Arc.
If you're using Azure Arc-enabled servers only for Extended Security Updates for either or both of the following products:
Windows Server 2012
SQL Server 2012
You can enable the following subset of endpoints:
Azure Cloud
Azure Government
Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet
download.microsoft.com
login.windows.net
login.microsoftonline.com
*.login.microsoft.com
management.azure.com
*.his.arc.azure.com
*.guestconfiguration.azure.com
www.microsoft.com/pkiops/certs
*.<region>.arcdataservices.com
*.blob.core.windows.net
1Access to this URL also needed when performing updates automatically.
download.microsoft.com
login.microsoftonline.us
management.usgovcloudapi.net
*.his.arc.azure.us
*.guestconfiguration.azure.us
www.microsoft.com/pkiops/certs
*.blob.core.usgovcloudapi.net
1Access to this URL also needed when performing updates automatically.
Note
Azure Arc-enabled servers used for Extended Security Updates for Windows Server 2012 is not available in Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet regions at this time.
Tip
To take advantage of the full range of offerings for Arc-enabled servers, such as extensions and remote connectivity, ensure that you allow the additional URLs that apply to your scenario. For more information, seeConnected machine agent networking requirements.
Required Certificate Authorities
The followingCertificate Authoritiesare required for Extended Security Updates for Windows Server 2012:
Microsoft Azure RSA TLS Issuing CA 03
Microsoft Azure RSA TLS Issuing CA 04
Microsoft Azure RSA TLS Issuing CA 07
Microsoft Azure RSA TLS Issuing CA 08
If necessary, these Certificate Authorities can bemanually download and installed.
Next steps
Find out more aboutplanning for Windows Server and SQL Server end of supportandgetting Extended Security Updates.
Find out more aboutplanning for Windows Server and SQL Server end of supportandgetting Extended Security Updates.
Learn about best practices and design patterns through theAzure Arc landing zone accelerator for hybrid and multicloud.
Learn about best practices and design patterns through theAzure Arc landing zone accelerator for hybrid and multicloud.
Learn more aboutArc-enabled serversand how they work with Azure through the Azure Connected Machine agent.
Learn more aboutArc-enabled serversand how they work with Azure through the Azure Connected Machine agent.
Explore options foronboarding your machinesto Azure Arc-enabled servers.
Explore options foronboarding your machinesto Azure Arc-enabled servers.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources