Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Authenticate event delivery to event handlers (Azure Event Grid)
Article
2024-11-12
24 contributors
In this article
This article provides information on authenticating event delivery to event handlers.
Overview
Azure Event Grid uses different authentication methods to deliver events to event handlers. `
Note
If you protect your Azure function with a Microsoft Entra app, you'll have to take the generic webhook approach using the HTTP trigger. Use the Azure function endpoint as a webhook URL when adding the subscription.
Use system-assigned identities for event delivery
You can enable a system-assigned managed identity for a topic or domain and use the identity to forward events to supported destinations such as Service Bus queues and topics, event hubs, and storage accounts.
Here are the steps:
Create a topic or domain with a system-assigned identity, or enable identity on an existing topic or domain. For more information, seeEnable managed identity for a system topicorEnable managed identity for a custom topic or a domain
Add the identity to an appropriate role (for example, Service Bus Data Sender) on the destination (for example, a Service Bus queue). For more information, seeGrant identity the access to Event Grid destination
When you create event subscriptions, enable the usage of the identity to deliver events to the destination. For more information, seeCreate an event subscription that uses the identity.
For detailed step-by-step instructions, seeEvent delivery with a managed identity.
Authenticate event delivery to webhook endpoints
The following sections describe how to authenticate event delivery to webhook endpoints. Use a validation handshake mechanism irrespective of the method you use. SeeWebhook event deliveryfor details.
Using Microsoft Entra ID
You can secure the webhook endpoint that's used to receive events from Event Grid by using Microsoft Entra ID. You need to create a Microsoft Entra application, create a role and a service principal in your application authorizing Event Grid, and configure the event subscription to use the Microsoft Entra application. Learn how toConfigure Microsoft Entra ID with Event Grid.
Using client secret as a query parameter
You can also secure your webhook endpoint by adding query parameters to the webhook destination URL specified as part of creating an Event Subscription. Set one of the query parameters to be a client secret such as anaccess tokenor a shared secret. Event Grid service includes all the query parameters in every event delivery request to the webhook. The webhook service can retrieve and validate the secret. If the client secret is updated, event subscription also needs to be updated. To avoid delivery failures during this secret rotation, make the webhook accept both old and new secrets for a limited duration before updating the event subscription with the new secret.
As query parameters could contain client secrets, they're handled with extra care. They're stored as encrypted and aren't accessible to service operators. They aren't logged as part of the service logs/traces. When retrieving the Event Subscription properties, destination query parameters aren't returned by default. For example:--include-full-endpoint-urlparameter is to be used in AzureCLI.
For more information on delivering events to webhooks, seeWebhook event delivery
Important
Azure Event Grid only supportsHTTPSwebhook endpoints.
Endpoint validation with CloudEvents v1.0
If you're already familiar with Event Grid, you might be aware of the endpoint validation handshake for preventing abuse. CloudEvents v1.0 implements its ownabuse protection semanticsby using theHTTP OPTIONSmethod. To read more about it, seeHTTP 1.1 Web Hooks for event delivery - Version 1.0. When you use the CloudEvents schema for output, Event Grid uses the CloudEvents v1.0 abuse protection in place of the Event Grid validation event mechanism. For more information, seeUse CloudEvents v1.0 schema with Event Grid.
Related content
SeeAuthenticate publishing clientsto learn about authenticating clients publishing events to topics or domains.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources