Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Best practices for Microsoft Sentinel
Article
2024-06-28
6 contributors
In this article
Best practice guidance is provided throughout the technical documentation for Microsoft Sentinel. This article highlights some key guidance to use when deploying, managing, and using Microsoft Sentinel.
Important
Microsoft Sentinel is generally available within Microsoft's unified security operations platform in the Microsoft Defender portal, including for customers without Microsoft Defender XDR or an E5 license. For more information, seeMicrosoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal.
Setting up Microsoft Sentinel
Start with thedeployment guide for Microsoft Sentinel. The deployment guide covers the high level steps to plan, deploy, and fine-tune your Microsoft Sentinel deployment. From that guide, select the provided links to find detailed guidance for each stage in your deployment.
Microsoft security service integrations
Microsoft Sentinel is empowered by the components that send data to your workspace, and is made stronger through integrations with other Microsoft services. Any logs ingested into products, such as Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, and Microsoft Defender for Identity, allow these services to create detections, and in turn provide those detections to Microsoft Sentinel. Logs can also be ingested directly into Microsoft Sentinel to provide a fuller picture for events and incidents.
For example, the following image shows how Microsoft Sentinel ingests data from other Microsoft services and multicloud and partner platforms to provide coverage for your environment:

More than ingesting alerts and logs from other sources, Microsoft Sentinel also:
Uses the information it ingests withmachine learningthat allows for better event correlation, alert aggregation, anomaly detection, and more.
Builds and presents interactive visuals viaworkbooks, showing trends, related information, and key data used for both admin tasks and investigations.
Runsplaybooksto act on alerts, gathering information, performing actions on items, and sending notifications to various platforms.
Integrates with partner platforms, such as ServiceNow and Jira, to provide essential services for SOC teams.
Ingests and fetches enrichment feedsfromthreat intelligence platformsto bring valuable data for investigating.
For more information about integrating data from other services or providers, seeMicrosoft Sentinel data connectors.
Consider onboarding Microsoft Sentinel to the Microsoft Defender portal to unify capabilities with Microsoft Defender XDR like incident management and advanced hunting. For more information, see the following articles:
Connect Microsoft Sentinel to Microsoft Defender XDR
Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal
Incident management and response
The following image shows recommended steps in an incident management and response process.

The following table provides high-level descriptions for how to use Microsoft Sentinel features for incident management and response. For more information, seeInvestigate incidents with Microsoft Sentinel.
Related content
Microsoft Sentinel operational guide
On-board Microsoft Sentinel
Deployment guide for Microsoft Sentinel
Protecting MSSP intellectual property in Microsoft Sentinel
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources