Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data store classification
Article
2024-08-22
5 contributors
In this article
This article describes Azure Storage options. It doesn't cover Internet of Things (IoT) storage options. For more information about IoT-related storage, seeAzure IoTandIoT architectures. This article also doesn't cover workloads that use vectorized data, like most AI workloads. For more information, seeChoose an Azure service for vector search.
Azure Storage categories includesimple storage solutions,database and analytics storage, andIoT storage. The following sections describe simple storage and database and analytics storage.

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Simple storage solutions
Use simple storage solutions likeAzure Blob Storage(Azure Data Lake Storage excluded),Azure Files,Azure disks,Azure Queue Storage,Azure NetApp Files, andAzure Table Storage. These solutions are ideal for storing large amounts of data that don't requireatomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) capabilities. Simple storage solutions usually cost less than databases or analytics services. Use simple storage for file shares, data that needs minimal structured querying and transactional capabilities, and long-term file retention.
Database and analytics storage
Use databases when you needACID capabilities. Azure databases includeanalytical databases or data storesandtransactional databases or data stores.
Azure analytical databases and data stores, also known as online analytical processing (OLAP) workloads, are specialized services designed to store, manage, and analyze large volumes of data. These specialized tools store, manage, and analyze large volumes of data. Analytical databases provide the infrastructure for data warehousing, big data analytics, and real-time analytics. They are optimized for reading large amounts of data and often use columnar storage. For more information, seeChoose an analytical data store in Azure.
Azure analytical databases and data stores, also known as online analytical processing (OLAP) workloads, are specialized services designed to store, manage, and analyze large volumes of data. These specialized tools store, manage, and analyze large volumes of data. Analytical databases provide the infrastructure for data warehousing, big data analytics, and real-time analytics. They are optimized for reading large amounts of data and often use columnar storage. For more information, seeChoose an analytical data store in Azure.
Transactional databases in Azure, also known asonline transaction processing (OLTP) systems, support workloads that need quick, reliable, and secure transaction processing. Transactional databases are optimized for reading and writing data and typically use row storage, but there are exceptions. This optimization ensures data integrity and consistency. For more information about how to deploy a transactional database, seeOLTP solutions.
Transactional databases in Azure, also known asonline transaction processing (OLTP) systems, support workloads that need quick, reliable, and secure transaction processing. Transactional databases are optimized for reading and writing data and typically use row storage, but there are exceptions. This optimization ensures data integrity and consistency. For more information about how to deploy a transactional database, seeOLTP solutions.
The two types of transactional databases include relational databases, also known asSQL databases, and nonrelational databases, also known asNoSQL databases.

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Use relational databases to store and organize data points that have defined relationships for quick and easy access. These databases have tables that represent predefined categories. The rows and columns contain information about each entity. This structure provides efficient and flexible access to data. Examples of these databases in Azure include:SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.SQL Database.Azure Database for PostgreSQLand PostgreSQL.Azure Database for MySQLand MySQL in their infrastructure as a service and platform-as-a-service versions.
Use relational databases to store and organize data points that have defined relationships for quick and easy access. These databases have tables that represent predefined categories. The rows and columns contain information about each entity. This structure provides efficient and flexible access to data. Examples of these databases in Azure include:
SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.
SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.
SQL Database.
SQL Database.
Azure Database for PostgreSQLand PostgreSQL.
Azure Database for PostgreSQLand PostgreSQL.
Azure Database for MySQLand MySQL in their infrastructure as a service and platform-as-a-service versions.
Azure Database for MySQLand MySQL in their infrastructure as a service and platform-as-a-service versions.
Nonrelational databases store, manage, and retrieve data that isn't necessarily structured in a tabular form like relational databases. NoSQL databases can handle a wide variety of data types, including structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data. Examples of these databases in Azure includeAzure Cosmos DBandAzure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandra.
Nonrelational databases store, manage, and retrieve data that isn't necessarily structured in a tabular form like relational databases. NoSQL databases can handle a wide variety of data types, including structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data. Examples of these databases in Azure includeAzure Cosmos DBandAzure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandra.
You might need a hybrid database or data store for analytical and transactional purposes. These use cases are known ashybrid transactional and analytical processing. For these use cases, use products likeAzure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQLorAzure SQL Database Hyperscale.
Next step
Databases architecture design
Related resources
Choose an Azure data service
Criteria to choose a data store
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources