Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
High availability and disaster recovery guidance for Data Lake Storage Gen1
Article
2018-02-21
1 contributor
In this article
Data Lake Storage Gen1 provides locally redundant storage (LRS). Therefore, the data in your Data Lake Storage Gen1 account is resilient to transient hardware failures within a datacenter through automated replicas. This ensures durability and high availability, meeting the Data Lake Storage Gen1 SLA. This article provides guidance on how to further protect your data from rare region-wide outages or accidental deletions.
Disaster recovery guidance
It's critical for you to prepare a disaster recovery plan. Review the information in this article and these additional resources to help you create your own plan.
Disaster recovery and high availability for Azure applications
Azure resiliency technical guidance
Best practice recommendations
We recommend that you copy your critical data to another Data Lake Storage Gen1 account in another region with a frequency aligned to the needs of your disaster recovery plan. There are a variety of methods to copy data includingADLCopy,Azure PowerShell, orAzure Data Factory. Azure Data Factory is a useful service for creating and deploying data movement pipelines on a recurring basis.
If a regional outage occurs, you can then access your data in the region where the data was copied. You can monitor theAzure Service Health Dashboardto determine the Azure service status across the globe.
Data corruption or accidental deletion recovery guidance
While Data Lake Storage Gen1 provides data resiliency through automated replicas, this does not prevent your application (or developers/users) from corrupting data or accidentally deleting it.
To prevent accidental deletion, we recommend that you first set the correct access policies for your Data Lake Storage Gen1 account. This includes applyingAzure resource locksto lock down important resources and applying account and file level access control using the availableData Lake Storage Gen1 security features. We also recommend that you routinely create copies of your critical data usingADLCopy,Azure PowerShellorAzure Data Factoryin another Data Lake Storage Gen1 account, folder, or Azure subscription. This can be used to recover from a data corruption or deletion incident. Azure Data Factory is a useful service for creating and deploying data movement pipelines on a recurring basis.
You can also enablediagnostic loggingfor a Data Lake Storage Gen1 account to collect data access audit trails. The audit trails provide information about who might have deleted or updated a file.
Next steps
Get started with Data Lake Storage Gen1
Secure data in Data Lake Storage Gen1
Additional resources