Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cross-region replication of Azure NetApp Files volumes
Article
2025-03-21
8 contributors
In this article
The Azure NetApp Files replication functionality provides data protection through cross-region volume replication. You can asynchronously replicate data from an Azure NetApp Files volume (source) in one region to another Azure NetApp Files volume (destination) in another region. This capability enables you to fail over your critical application if a region-wide outage or disaster happens.
Supported cross-region replication pairs
Azure NetApp Files volume replication is supported between variousAzure regional pairsand non-standard pairs. Azure NetApp Files volume replication is currently available between the following regions. You can replicate Azure NetApp Files volumes from Regional Pair A to Regional Pair B, and vice versa.
Azure regional pairs
Azure regional non-standard pairs
Note
There may be a discrepancy in the size and number of snapshots between source and destination. This discrepancy is expected. Snapshot policies and replication schedules will influence the number of snapshots. Snapshot policies and replication schedules, combined with the amount of data changed between snapshots, will influence the size of snapshots. To learn more about snapshots, refer toHow Azure NetApp Files snapshots work.
Service-level objectives
Recovery Point Objective (RPO) indicates the point in time to which data can be recovered. The RPO target is typically less than twice the replication schedule, but it can vary. In some cases, it can go beyond the target RPO based on factors such as the total dataset size, the change rate, the percentage of data overwrites, and the replication bandwidth available for transfer.
Cross-region replication supports three replication schedules: 10 minutes, hourly, and daily.
For the replication schedule of 10 minutes, the typical RPO is less than 20 minutes.
For the hourly replication schedule, the typical RPO is less than two hours.
For the daily replication schedule, the typical RPO is less than two days.
Important
Large volumesfor cross-region replication do not support the 10-minute replication schedule.
Recovery Time Objective (RTO), or the maximum tolerable business application downtime, is determined by factors in bringing up the application and providing access to the data at the second site. The storage portion of the RTO for breaking the peering relationship to activate the destination volume and provide read and write data access in the second site is expected to be complete within a minute.
Cost model for cross-region replication
With Azure NetApp Files cross-region replication, you pay only for the amount of data you replicate. There's no setup charge or minimum usage fee. The replication price is based on the replication frequency and the region of thedestinationvolume you choose during the initial replication configuration. For more information, see theAzure NetApp Files Pricingpage.
Regular Azure NetApp Files storage capacity charge applies to the replication destination volume (also called thedata protectionvolume).
Pricing examples
The cross-region replication amount billed in a month is based on the amount of data replicated through the cross-region replication feature during that month. The amount of data replicated is measured in GiB. It represents the sum of data replicated across two regions during all regular replications from the source volumes to the destination volumes and during all resync replications from the destination volumes to the source volumes.
Assume the following situations:
Yoursourcevolume is from the Azure NetApp FilesPremiumservice level. It has a volume quota size of 1000 GiB and a volume consumed size of 500 GiB at the beginning of the first day of a month. The volume is in theUS South Centralregion.
Yourdestinationvolume is from the Azure NetApp FilesStandardservice level. It is in theUS East 2region.
You’ve configured anhourlybased cross-region replication between the two volumes above. Therefore, the price of replication is $0.12 per GiB.
For simplicity, assume your source volume has a constant 0.5-GiB data change every hour, but the total volume consumed size doesn't grow (remains at 500 GiB).
After the initial setup, the baseline replication happens immediately.
Data amount replicated during baseline replication:500 GiB
500 GiB
Baseline replication charges:500 GiB * $0.12 = $60
500 GiB * $0.12 = $60
After the baseline replication, only changed blocks are replicated. Therefore, only 0.5 GiB of data will be replicated every hour in the subsequent incremental replications.
Sum of data amount replicated across incremental replications for a 30-day month:0.5 GiB * 24 hours * 30 days = 360 GiB
0.5 GiB * 24 hours * 30 days = 360 GiB
Incremental replication charges:360 GiB * $0.12 = $43.2
360 GiB * $0.12 = $43.2
By the end of Month 1, the total cross-region replication charge is as follows:
Total cross-region replication charge from Month 1:$60 + $43.2 = $103.2
$60 + $43.2 = $103.2
Regular Azure NetApp Files storage capacity charge applies to the destination volume. However, the destination volume can use a storage tier that is different from (and cheaper than) the source volume tier.
Assume you have a source volume, a destination volume, and a replication relationship between the two setups as described in Example 1. For 29 days of the second month (a 30-day month), the hourly replications occurred as expected.
Sum of data amount replicated across incremental replications for 29 days:0.5 GiB * 24 hours * 29 days = 348 GiB
0.5 GiB * 24 hours * 29 days = 348 GiB
Assume that on the last day of the month, an unplanned outage occurred in the source region and you failed over to the destination volume. After 2 hours, the source region recovered and you performed a resync replication from the destination volume to the source volume. During the 2 hours, 0.8 GiB of data change occurred at the destination volume and needed to be resynced to the source.
Sum of data amount replicated across regular replications for 22 hours on the last day:0.5 GiB * 22 hours = 11 GiB
0.5 GiB * 22 hours = 11 GiB
Data amount replicated during one resync replication:0.8 GiB
0.8 GiB
Therefore, by the end of Month 2, the total cross-region replication charge is as follows:
Total cross-region replication charge from Month 2:(348 GiB + 11 GiB + 0.8 GiB) * $0.12 = $43.18
(348 GiB + 11 GiB + 0.8 GiB) * $0.12 = $43.18
Regular Azure NetApp Files storage capacity charge for Month 2 applies to the destination volume.
Next steps
Requirements and considerations for using cross-region replication
Create volume replication
Display health status of replication relationship
Manage disaster recovery
Resize a cross-region replication destination volume
Volume replication metrics
Delete volume replications or volumes
Troubleshoot cross-region replication
Test disaster recovery for Azure NetApp Files
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources