Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Auditing for Azure SQL Database and Azure Synapse Analytics
Article
2025-03-13
30 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL DatabaseAzure Synapse Analytics
Auditing forAzure SQL DatabaseandAzure Synapse Analyticstracks database events and writes them to an audit log in your Azure storage account, Log Analytics workspace, or Event Hubs.
Auditing also:
Helps you maintain regulatory compliance, understand database activity, and gain insight into discrepancies and anomalies that could indicate business concerns or suspected security violations.
Helps you maintain regulatory compliance, understand database activity, and gain insight into discrepancies and anomalies that could indicate business concerns or suspected security violations.
Enables and facilitates adherence to compliance standards, although it doesn't guarantee compliance. For more information, see theMicrosoft Azure Trust Centerwhere you can find the most current list of SQL Database compliance certifications.
Enables and facilitates adherence to compliance standards, although it doesn't guarantee compliance. For more information, see theMicrosoft Azure Trust Centerwhere you can find the most current list of SQL Database compliance certifications.
Note
For information on Azure SQL Managed Instance auditing, seeGet started with Azure SQL Managed Instance auditing.
Overview
You can use SQL Database auditing to:
Retainan audit trail of selected events. You can define categories of database actions to be audited.
Reporton database activity. You can use preconfigured reports and a dashboard to get started quickly with activity and event reporting.
Analyzereports. You can find suspicious events, unusual activity, and trends.
Important
Auditing for Azure SQL Database, Azure Synapse Analytics SQL pools, and Azure SQL Managed Instance is optimized for availability and performance of the database or instance being audited. During periods of very high activity or high network load, the auditing feature might allow transactions to proceed without recording all of the events marked for auditing.
Enhancements to performance, availability, and reliability in server auditing for Azure SQL Database (March 2025)
Re-architected major portions of SQL Auditing resulting in increased availability and reliability of server audits. As an added benefit, there's closer feature alignment with SQL Server and Azure SQL Managed Instance. Database auditing remains unchanged.
The previous design of auditing triggers a database level audit and executes one audit session for each database in the server. The new architecture of auditing creates one extended event session at the server level that captures audit events for all databases.
The new auditing design optimizes memory and CPU, and is consistent with how auditing works in SQL Server and Azure SQL Managed Instance.
Changes from the re-architecture of server auditing
Folder structure change for storage account:One of the primary changes involves a folder structure change for audit logs stored in storage account containers. Previously, server audit logs were written to separate folders; one for each database, with the database name serving as the folder name. With the new update, all server audit logs will be consolidated into a single folder labeledmaster. This behavior is the same as Azure SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server.
One of the primary changes involves a folder structure change for audit logs stored in storage account containers. Previously, server audit logs were written to separate folders; one for each database, with the database name serving as the folder name. With the new update, all server audit logs will be consolidated into a single folder labeledmaster. This behavior is the same as Azure SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server.
master
Folder structure change for read-only replicas:Read-only database replicas previously had their logs stored in a read-only folder. Those logs will now be written into themasterfolder. You can retrieve these logs by filtering on the new columnis_secondary_replica_true.
Read-only database replicas previously had their logs stored in a read-only folder. Those logs will now be written into themasterfolder. You can retrieve these logs by filtering on the new columnis_secondary_replica_true.
master
is_secondary_replica_true
Permissions required to view Audit logs:CONTROL DATABASEpermission on themasterdatabase is required to view audit logs stored in themasterfolder
CONTROL DATABASEpermission on themasterdatabase is required to view audit logs stored in themasterfolder
CONTROL DATABASE
master
master
Auditing limitations
Enabling auditing on a pausedAzure Synapse SQL poolisn't supported. To enable auditing, resume theSynapse SQL pool.
Enabling auditing by using User Assigned Managed Identity (UAMI) isn't supported onAzure Synapse.
Currently, managed identities aren't supported for Azure Synapse, unless the storage account is behind a virtual network or firewall.
Due to performance constraints, we don't audit thetempdbandtemporary tables. While the batch completed action group captures statements against temporary tables, it might not correctly populate the object names. However, the source table is always audited, ensuring that all inserts from the source table to temporary tables are recorded.
Auditing forAzure Synapse SQL poolssupports default audit action groupsonly.
When you configure auditing for alogical server in Azureor Azure SQL Database with the log destination as a storage account, the authentication mode must match the configuration for that storage account. If using storage access keys as the authentication type, the target storage account must be enabled with access to the storage account keys. If the storage account is configured to only use authentication with Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory), auditing can be configured to use managed identities for authentication.
Remarks
Premium storagewithBlockBlobStorageis supported. Standard storage is supported. However, for audit to write to a storage account behind a virtual network or firewall, you must have ageneral-purpose v2 storage account. If you have a general-purpose v1 or Blob Storage account,upgrade to a general-purpose v2 storage account. For specific instructions see,Write audit to a storage account behind VNet and firewall. For more information, seeTypes of storage accounts.
Hierarchical namespacefor all types ofstandard storage accountandpremium storage account with BlockBlobStorageis supported.
Audit logs are written toAppend Blobsin an Azure Blob Storage on your Azure subscription
Audit logs are in .xel format and can be opened withSQL Server Management Studio (SSMS).
To configure an immutable log store for the server or database-level audit events, follow theinstructions provided by Azure Storage. Make sure you have selectedAllow additional appendswhen you configure the immutable blob storage.
You can write audit logs to an Azure Storage account behind a virtual network or firewall.
For details about the log format, hierarchy of the storage folder, and naming conventions, see the article,SQL Database audit log format.
Auditing onUse read-only replicas to offload read-only query workloadsis automatically enabled. For more information about the hierarchy of the storage folders, naming conventions, and log format, see the article,SQL Database audit log format.
When using Microsoft Entra authentication, failed logins recordsdon'tappear in the SQL audit log. To view failed login audit records, you need to visit theMicrosoft Entra admin center, which logs details of these events.
Logins are routed by the gateway to the specific instance where the database is located. With Microsoft Entra logins, the credentials are verified before attempting to use that user to sign into the requested database. In the case of failure, the requested database is never accessed, so no auditing occurs. With SQL logins, the credentials are verified on the requested data, so in this case they can be audited. Successful logins, which obviously reach the database, are audited in both cases.
After you've configured your auditing settings, you can turn on the new threat detection feature and configure emails to receive security alerts. When you use threat detection, you receive proactive alerts on anomalous database activities that can indicate potential security threats. For more information, seeSQL Advanced Threat Protection.
After a database with auditing enabled is copied to anotherlogical server, you might receive an email notifying you that the audit failed. This is a known issue and auditing should work as expected on the newly copied database.
Related content
What's New in Azure SQL Auditing
Get started with Azure SQL Managed Instance auditing
Auditing for SQL Server
Set up Auditing for Azure SQL Database and Azure Synapse Analytics
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources