Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL Database
Article
2025-01-08
3 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL ServerAzure SQL Database
In this guide, you learnhow to migrateyour SQL Server instance to Azure SQL Database.
Completepre-migrationsteps before continuing.
Migrate
After you complete the steps for thepre-migration stage, you're ready to perform the schema and data migration.
Migrate your data using your chosenmigration method.
Migrate using the Azure SQL migration extension for Azure Data Studio
To perform an offline migration using Azure Data Studio, follow the high-level steps below. For a detailed step-by-step tutorial, seeTutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Database (offline).
Download and installAzure Data Studioand theAzure SQL migration extension.
Launch the Migrate to Azure SQL Migration wizard in the extension in Azure Data Studio.
Select databases for assessment and view migration readiness or issues (if any). Additionally, collect performance data and get right-sized Azure recommendation.
Select your Azure account and your target Azure SQL Database from your subscription.
Select the list of tables to migrate.
Create a new Azure Database Migration Service using the wizard in Azure Data Studio. If you've previously created an Azure Database Migration Service using Azure Data Studio, you can reuse the same if desired.
Optional: If your backups are on an on-premises network share, download and installself-hosted integration runtimeon a machine that can connect to the source SQL Server, and the location containing the backup files.
Start the database migration and monitor the progress in Azure Data Studio. You can also monitor the progress under the Azure Database Migration Service resource in Azure portal.
Data sync and cutover
When using migration options that continuously replicate / sync data changes from source to the target, the source data and schema can change and drift from the target. During data sync, ensure that all changes on the source are captured and applied to the target during the migration process.
After you verify that data is same on both the source and the target, you can cut over from the source to the target environment. It's important to plan the cutover process with business / application teams to ensure minimal interruption during cutover doesn't affect business continuity.
Important
For details on the specific steps associated with performing a cutover as part of migrations using DMS, seeTutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Database using DMS (classic).
Migrate using transactional replication
When you can't afford to remove your SQL Server database from production while the migration is occurring, you can use SQL Server transactional replication as your migration solution. To use this method, the source database must meet therequirements for transactional replicationand be compatible for Azure SQL Database. For information about SQL replication with availability groups, seeConfigure replication with Always On availability groups.
To use this solution, you configure your database in Azure SQL Database as a subscriber to the SQL Server instance that you wish to migrate. The transactional replication distributor synchronizes data from the database to be synchronized (the publisher) while new transactions continue.
With transactional replication, all changes to your data or schema show up in your database in Azure SQL Database. Once the synchronization is complete and you're ready to migrate, change the connection string of your applications to point them to your database. Once transactional replication drains any changes left on your source database and all your applications point to Azure SQL Database, you can uninstall transactional replication. Your database in Azure SQL Database is now your production system.
Tip
You can also use transactional replication to migrate a subset of your source database. The publication that you replicate to Azure SQL Database can be limited to a subset of the tables in the database being replicated. For each table being replicated, you can limit the data to a subset of the rows and/or a subset of the columns.
Important
Use the latest version of SQL Server Management Studio to remain synchronized with updates to Azure and SQL Database. Older versions of SQL Server Management Studio can't set up SQL Database as a subscriber.Get the latest version of SQL Server Management Studio.
Some tips and differences for migrating to SQL Database
Use a local distributorDoing so causes a performance impact on the server.If the performance impact is unacceptable you can use another server, but it adds complexity in management and administration.
Doing so causes a performance impact on the server.
If the performance impact is unacceptable you can use another server, but it adds complexity in management and administration.
When selecting a snapshot folder, make sure the folder you select is large enough to hold a BCP of every table you want to replicate.
Snapshot creation locks the associated tables until it's complete, so schedule your snapshot appropriately.
Only push subscriptions are supported in Azure SQL Database. You can only add subscribers from the source database.
Migration recommendations
To speed up migration to Azure SQL Database, you should consider the following recommendations:
You can also consider these recommendations for best performance during the migration process.
Choose the highest service tier and compute size that your budget allows to maximize the transfer performance. You can scale down after the migration completes to save money.
If you use BACPAC files, minimize the distance between your BACPAC file and the destination data center.
Disable auto update and auto create statistics during migration.
Partition tables and indexes.
Drop indexed views, and recreate them once finished.
Remove rarely queried historical data to another database and migrate this historical data to a separate database in Azure SQL Database. You can then query this historical data usingelastic queries.
Post-migration
After you have successfully completed the migration stage, go through the following post-migration tasks to ensure that everything is functioning smoothly and efficiently.
The post-migration phase is crucial for reconciling any data accuracy issues and verifying completeness, as well as addressing performance issues with the workload.
Update statistics
Update statisticswith full scan after the migration is completed.
Remediate applications
After the data is migrated to the target environment, all the applications that formerly consumed the source need to start consuming the target. Accomplishing this will, in some cases, require changes to the applications.
Perform tests
The test approach for database migration consists of the following activities:
Develop validation tests: To test database migration, you need to use SQL queries. You must create the validation queries to run against both the source and the target databases. Your validation queries should cover the scope you have defined.
Set up test environment: The test environment should contain a copy of the source database and the target database. Be sure to isolate the test environment.
Run validation tests: Run the validation tests against the source and the target, and then analyze the results.
Run performance tests: Run performance test against the source and the target, and then analyze and compare the results.
Use advanced features
Be sure to take advantage of the advanced cloud-based features offered by SQL Database, such asbuilt-in high availability,threat detection, andmonitoring and tuning your workload.
Some SQL Server features are only available once thedatabase compatibility levelis changed to the latest compatibility level.
To learn more, seemanaging Azure SQL Database after migration.
Resolve database migration compatibility issues
You might encounter a wide variety of compatibility issues, depending both on the version of SQL Server in the source database and the complexity of the database you're migrating. Older versions of SQL Server have more compatibility issues. Use the following resources, in addition to a targeted Internet search using your search engine of choices:
Transact-SQL differences between SQL Server and Azure SQL Database
Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server
Important
Azure SQL Managed Instance enables you to migrate an existing SQL Server instance and its databases with minimal to no compatibility issues. SeeWhat is Azure SQL Managed Instance?
Related content
Services and tools available for data migration scenarios
Migrate databases with Azure SQL Migration extension for Azure Data Studio
Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Database (offline)
About Azure Migrate
What is Azure SQL Database?
Azure total Cost of Ownership Calculator
Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
Best practices for costing and sizing workloads for migration to Azure
Cloud Migration Resources
Overview of Database Experimentation Assistant
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources