Azure for US Government
Accelerate your mission with a continuum of compute across data classifications from intelligent cloud to intelligent edge.
Why Azure
Government audiences
Azure options for US Government
News & announcements
Resources & documentation
Why Azure
Government audiences
Azure options for US Government
News & announcements
Resources & documentation
Free account
Do more for the mission with Azure
Be future ready with the broadest range of commercial innovation for government. Azure delivers advanced compute and analytics capabilities from cloud to edge to help you gain insights, move faster, and do more for the mission.
Department of Defense
Advance the mission of national security.
Intelligence Community
Gain visibility, deepen insights, and improve decisions.
Federal Civilian
Deliver accessible citizen services and steward data.
State and Local
Empower government workers and protect your communities.
Microsoft continues commitment to US Department of Defense with JWCC selection (JWCC)
Learn how Microsoft will help deliver mission-critical 21st century technology to our nation's service members and strengthen U.S. national security by supporting U.S. DoD Joint Warfighting Cloud Capability (JWCC).
Access JWCC restricted site
Learn more about Microsoft and JWCC

Azure options for US Government customers and partners
Watch the video to understand the best Azure regions for your needs—you can choose from the 60+ regions around the world or select Azure Government, the mission-critical cloud built to exceed requirements for classified and unclassified US Government data.
Ruggedized portfolio for your tactical edge
Do more at the tactical edge, whether that's pre-processing data for low latency response times, bringing AI and machine learning to the far edge, or harnessing satellite data more rapidly to enable decision making in disconnected environments.
Discover more about Azure for US Government
Access helpful resources and documentation
Learn more
Overview of cloud computing
Azure Government documentation
Azure Government regions
Azure Government services by audit scope
Blogs and videos
Azure Government Dev Blog
Azure Blog – Government
Azure Government YouTube channel
Events and Training
Azure Government DC User Community
Grow your skills with Microsoft Learn for Azure
How to buy
How to buy Azure Government
Find an Azure Government partner
Azure Government Free Trial
Check your eligibility for Azure Government
Support
Azure Government Support Options
FastTrack for Azure
Start building with Azure today