Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of business continuity with Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server
Article
2024-12-02
13 contributors
In this article
Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server enables business continuity capabilities that protect your databases in the event of a planned and unplanned outage. Features such as automated backups and high availability addresses different levels of fault-protection with different recovery time and data loss exposures. As you architect your application to protect against faults, you should consider the recovery time objective (RTO) and recovery point objective (RPO) for each application. RTO is the downtime tolerance and RPO is the data loss tolerance after a disruption to the database service.
The following table illustrates the features that Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server offers.
Planned downtime mitigation
Here are some planned maintenance scenarios that incur downtime:
When the flexible server is configured withzone redundant high availability, the flexible server performs operations on the standby server first and then on the primary server without a failover. Refer toHigh availability concepts in Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Serverfor more details.
Unplanned downtime mitigation
Unplanned downtimes can occur as a result of unforeseen failures, including underlying hardware fault, networking issues, and software bugs. If the database server goes down unexpectedly, if configured with high availability [HA], then the standby replica is activated. If not, then a new database server is automatically provisioned. While an unplanned downtime can't be avoided, the flexible server mitigates the downtime by automatically performing recovery operations at both database server and storage layers without requiring human intervention.
Unplanned downtime: failure scenarios and service recovery
Here are some unplanned failure scenarios and the recovery process:
Requirements and Limitations
Region Data Residency
By default, Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server doesn't move or store customer data out of the region it's deployed in. However, customers can optionally choose to enable geo-redundant backups or set up cross-region replication for storing data in another region.
Related content
zone redundant high availability
backup and recovery
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources