Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Associate or add an Azure subscription to your Microsoft Entra tenant
How-to
2024-03-22
4 contributors
In this article
All Azure subscriptions have a trust relationship with a Microsoft Entra tenant. Subscriptions rely on this tenant (directory) to authenticate and authorize security principals and devices. When a subscription expires, the trusted instance remains, but the security principals lose access to Azure resources. Subscriptions can only trust a single directory while one Microsoft Entra tenant may be trusted by multiple subscriptions.
By default, the user who creates a Microsoft Entra tenant is automatically assigned theGlobal Administratorrole. However, when an owner of a subscription joins their subscription to an existing tenant, the owner isn't assigned to the Global Administrator role.
While users may only have a single authenticationhomedirectory, users may participate as guests in multiple directories. You can see both the home and guest directories for each user in Microsoft Entra ID.

Important
When a subscription is associated with a different directory, users who have roles assigned usingAzure role-based access controllose their access. Classic subscription administrators, including Service Administrator and Co-Administrators, also lose access.
Moving your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster to a different subscription, or moving the cluster-owning subscription to a new tenant, causes the cluster to lose functionality due to lost role assignments and service principal's rights. For more information about AKS, seeAzure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
Prerequisites
Before you can associate or add your subscription, do the following steps:
Review the following list of changes that will occur after you associate or add your subscription, and how you might be affected:Users assigned roles using Azure RBAC lose their access.Service Administrator and Co-Administrators will lose access.If you have any key vaults, they'll be inaccessible, and you'll have to fix them after association.If you have any managed identities for resources such as Virtual Machines or Logic Apps, you must re-enable or recreate them after the association.If you have a registered Azure Stack, you'll have to re-register it after association.For more information, seeTransfer an Azure subscription to a different Microsoft Entra directory.
Review the following list of changes that will occur after you associate or add your subscription, and how you might be affected:
Users assigned roles using Azure RBAC lose their access.
Service Administrator and Co-Administrators will lose access.
If you have any key vaults, they'll be inaccessible, and you'll have to fix them after association.
If you have any managed identities for resources such as Virtual Machines or Logic Apps, you must re-enable or recreate them after the association.
If you have a registered Azure Stack, you'll have to re-register it after association.
For more information, seeTransfer an Azure subscription to a different Microsoft Entra directory.
Sign in using an account that:Has anOwnerrole assignment for the subscription. For information about how to assign the Owner role, seeAssign Azure roles using the Azure portal.Exists in both the current directory and in the new directory. The current directory is associated with the subscription. You associate the new directory with the subscription. For more information about getting access to another directory, seeAdd Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration users in the Azure portal.Make sure that you're not using an Azure Cloud Service Providers (CSP) subscription (MS-AZR-0145P, MS-AZR-0146P, MS-AZR-159P), a Microsoft Internal subscription (MS-AZR-0015P), or a Microsoft Azure for Students Starter subscription (MS-AZR-0144P).
Sign in using an account that:
Has anOwnerrole assignment for the subscription. For information about how to assign the Owner role, seeAssign Azure roles using the Azure portal.
Exists in both the current directory and in the new directory. The current directory is associated with the subscription. You associate the new directory with the subscription. For more information about getting access to another directory, seeAdd Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration users in the Azure portal.
Make sure that you're not using an Azure Cloud Service Providers (CSP) subscription (MS-AZR-0145P, MS-AZR-0146P, MS-AZR-159P), a Microsoft Internal subscription (MS-AZR-0015P), or a Microsoft Azure for Students Starter subscription (MS-AZR-0144P).
Associate a subscription to a directory
To associate an existing subscription with your Microsoft Entra ID, follow these steps:
Sign to theAzure portalwith theOwnerrole assignment for the subscription.
Sign to theAzure portalwith theOwnerrole assignment for the subscription.
Browse toSubscriptions.
Browse toSubscriptions.
Select the name of the subscription you want to use.
Select the name of the subscription you want to use.
SelectChange directory.
SelectChange directory.

Review any warnings that appear, and then selectChange.After the directory is changed for the subscription, you'll get a success message.
Review any warnings that appear, and then selectChange.

After the directory is changed for the subscription, you'll get a success message.
SelectSwitch directorieson the subscription page to go to your new directory.It can take several hours for everything to show up properly. If it seems to be taking too long, check theGlobal subscription filter. Make sure the moved subscription isn't hidden. You may need to sign out of the Azure portal and sign back in to see the new directory.Changing the subscription directory is a service-level operation, so it doesn't affect subscription billing ownership. To delete the original directory, you must transfer the subscription billing ownership to a new Account Admin. To learn more about transferring billing ownership, seeTransfer ownership of an Azure subscription to another account.
SelectSwitch directorieson the subscription page to go to your new directory.

It can take several hours for everything to show up properly. If it seems to be taking too long, check theGlobal subscription filter. Make sure the moved subscription isn't hidden. You may need to sign out of the Azure portal and sign back in to see the new directory.
Changing the subscription directory is a service-level operation, so it doesn't affect subscription billing ownership. To delete the original directory, you must transfer the subscription billing ownership to a new Account Admin. To learn more about transferring billing ownership, seeTransfer ownership of an Azure subscription to another account.
Post-association steps
After you associate a subscription with a different directory, you might need to do the following tasks to resume operations:
If you have any key vaults, you must change the key vault tenant ID. For more information, seeChange a key vault tenant ID after a subscription move.
If you have any key vaults, you must change the key vault tenant ID. For more information, seeChange a key vault tenant ID after a subscription move.
If you used system-assigned Managed Identities for resources, you must re-enable these identities. If you used user-assigned Managed Identities, you must re-create these identities. After re-enabling or recreating the Managed Identities, you must re-establish the permissions assigned to those identities. For more information, seeWhat are managed identities for Azure resources?.
If you used system-assigned Managed Identities for resources, you must re-enable these identities. If you used user-assigned Managed Identities, you must re-create these identities. After re-enabling or recreating the Managed Identities, you must re-establish the permissions assigned to those identities. For more information, seeWhat are managed identities for Azure resources?.
If you've registered an Azure Stack using this subscription, you must re-register. For more information, seeRegister Azure Stack Hub with Azure.
If you've registered an Azure Stack using this subscription, you must re-register. For more information, seeRegister Azure Stack Hub with Azure.
For more information, seeTransfer an Azure subscription to a different Microsoft Entra directory.
For more information, seeTransfer an Azure subscription to a different Microsoft Entra directory.
Related content
Create a new tenant in Microsoft Entra ID
Azure roles, Microsoft Entra roles, and classic subscription administrator roles
Assign administrator and non-administrator roles to users with Microsoft Entra ID
Feedback
Was this page helpful?