Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Use Azure Storage for SQL Server backup and restore
Article
2024-06-18
13 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL Server on Azure VM
Starting with SQL Server 2012 SP1 CU2, you can now write back up SQL Server databases directly to Azure Blob storage. Use this functionality to back up to and restore from Azure Blob storage. Back up to the cloud offers benefits of availability, limitless geo-replicated off-site storage, and ease of migration of data to and from the cloud. You can issueBACKUPorRESTOREstatements by using Transact-SQL or SMO.
BACKUP
RESTORE
Overview
SQL Server 2016 introduces new capabilities; you can usefile-snapshot backupto perform nearly instantaneous backups and incredibly quick restores.
This topic explains why you might choose to use Azure Storage for SQL Server backups and then describes the components involved. You can use the resources provided at the end of the article to access walk-throughs and additional information to start using this service with your SQL Server backups.
Benefits of using Azure Blob storage for SQL Server backups
There are several challenges that you face when backing up SQL Server. These challenges include storage management, risk of storage failure, access to off-site storage, and hardware configuration. Many of these challenges are addressed by using Azure Blob storage for SQL Server backups. Consider the following benefits:
Ease of use: Storing your backups in Azure blobs can be a convenient, flexible, and easy to access off-site option. Creating off-site storage for your SQL Server backups can be as easy as modifying your existing scripts/jobs to use theBACKUP TO URLsyntax. Off-site storage should typically be far enough from the production database location to prevent a single disaster that might impact both the off-site and production database locations. By choosing togeo-replicate your Azure blobs, you have an extra layer of protection in the event of a disaster that could affect the whole region.
Backup archive: Azure Blob storage offers a better alternative to the often used tape option to archive backups. Tape storage might require physical transportation to an off-site facility and measures to protect the media. Storing your backups in Azure Blob storage provides an instant, highly available, and a durable archiving option.
Managed hardware: There is no overhead of hardware management with Azure services. Azure services manage the hardware and provide geo-replication for redundancy and protection against hardware failures.
Unlimited storage: By enabling a direct backup to Azure blobs, you have access to virtually unlimited storage. Alternatively, backing up to an Azure virtual machine disk has limits based on machine size. There is a limit to the number of disks you can attach to an Azure virtual machine for backups. This limit is 16 disks for an extra large instance and fewer for smaller instances.
Backup availability: Backups stored in Azure blobs are available from anywhere and at any time and can easily be accessed for restores to a SQL Server instance, without the need for database attach/detach or downloading and attaching the VHD.
Cost: Pay only for the service that is used. Can be cost-effective as an off-site and backup archive option. See theAzure pricing calculator, and theAzure Pricing articlefor more information.
Storage snapshots: When database files are stored in an Azure blob and you are using SQL Server 2016, you can usefile-snapshot backupto perform nearly instantaneous backups and incredibly quick restores.
For more details, seeSQL Server Backup and Restore with Azure Blob storage.
The following two sections introduce Azure Blob storage, including the required SQL Server components. It is important to understand the components and their interaction to successfully use backup and restore from Azure Blob storage.
Azure Blob storage components
The following Azure components are used when backing up to Azure Blob storage.
https://<storageaccount>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<blob>
SQL Server components
The following SQL Server components are used when backing up to Azure Blob storage.
WITH FORMAT
https://<storageaccount>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<FILENAME.bak>
Note
SQL Server 2016 has been updated to support block blobs. Please seeTutorial: Use Microsoft Azure Blob Storage with SQL Server databasesfor more details.
Next steps
Create an Azure account if you don't already have one. If you are evaluating Azure, consider thefree trial.
Create an Azure account if you don't already have one. If you are evaluating Azure, consider thefree trial.
Then go through one of the following tutorials that walk you through creating a storage account and performing a restore.SQL Server 2014:Tutorial: SQL Server 2014 Backup and Restore to Microsoft Azure Blob storage.SQL Server 2016:Tutorial: Using the Microsoft Azure Blob Storage with SQL Server databases
Then go through one of the following tutorials that walk you through creating a storage account and performing a restore.
SQL Server 2014:Tutorial: SQL Server 2014 Backup and Restore to Microsoft Azure Blob storage.
SQL Server 2016:Tutorial: Using the Microsoft Azure Blob Storage with SQL Server databases
Review additional documentation starting withSQL Server Backup and Restore with Microsoft Azure Blob storage.
Review additional documentation starting withSQL Server Backup and Restore with Microsoft Azure Blob storage.
If you have any problems, review the topicSQL Server Backup to URL Best Practices and Troubleshooting.
For other SQL Server backup and restore options, seeBackup and Restore for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources