Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Discover, connect, and explore data in Synapse using Microsoft Purview
Article
2022-08-14
7 contributors
In this article
In this document, you will learn the type of interactions that you can perform when registering a Microsoft Purview Account into Synapse.
Prerequisites
Microsoft Purview account
Synapse workspace
Connect a Microsoft Purview Account into Synapse
Using Microsoft Purview in Synapse
The use Microsoft Purview in Synapse requires you to have access to that Microsoft Purview account. Synapse passes-through your Microsoft Purview permission. As an example, if you have a curator permission role, you will be able to edit metadata scanned by Microsoft Purview.
Data discovery: search datasets
To discover data registered and scanned by Microsoft Purview, you can use the Search bar at the top center of Synapse workspace. Make sure that you select Microsoft Purview to search for all of your organization data.

Microsoft Purview actions
Here is a list of the Microsoft Purview features that are available in Synapse:
Overviewof the metadata
View and editschemaof the metadata with classifications, glossary terms, data types, and descriptions
Viewlineageto understand dependencies and do impact analysis. For more information about, seelineage
View and editContactsto know who is an owner or expert over a dataset
Relatedto understand the hierarchical dependencies of a specific dataset. This experience is helpful to browse through data hierarchy.
ClickRequest Accessto request access to the data by triggering the self-service data access workflow configured by Workflow Admin in Microsoft Purview. For more information seeRequest accessandSelf-Service data access workflow.
Actions that you can perform over datasets with Synapse resources
Connect data to Synapse
You can create anew linked serviceto Synapse. That action will be required to copy data to Synapse or have them in your data hub (for supported data sources like ADLSg2)
For objects like files, folders, or tables, you can directly create anew integration datasetand leverage an existing linked service if already created
We are not yet able to infer if there is an existing linked service or integration dataset.
 Develop in Synapse
There are three actions that you can perform:New SQL Script,New Notebook, andNew Data Flow.
WithNew SQL Script, depending on the type of support, you can:
View the top 100 rows in order to understand the shape of the data.
Create an external table from Synapse SQL database
Load the data into a Synapse SQL database
WithNew notebook, you can:
Load data into a Spark DataFrame
Create a Spark Table (if you do that over Parquet format, it also creates a serverless SQL pool table).
WithNew data flow, you can create an integration dataset that can be used a source in a data flow pipeline. Data flow is a no-code developer capability to perform data transformation. For more information aboutusing data flow in Synapse.
 Next steps
Register and scan Azure Synapse assets in Microsoft Purview
How to Search Data in Microsoft Purview Data Catalog
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources