Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What are the Azure Firewall Manager architecture options?
Article
2024-03-08
6 contributors
In this article
Azure Firewall Manager can provide security management for two network architecture types:
secured virtual hubAnAzure Virtual WAN Hubis a Microsoft-managed resource that lets you easily create hub and spoke architectures. When security and routing policies associate with such a hub, it's known as asecured virtual hub.
secured virtual hub
AnAzure Virtual WAN Hubis a Microsoft-managed resource that lets you easily create hub and spoke architectures. When security and routing policies associate with such a hub, it's known as asecured virtual hub.
hub virtual networkThis is a standard Azure virtual network that you create and manage yourself. When security policies are associated with such a hub, it's known as ahub virtual network. At this time, only Azure Firewall Policy is supported. You can peer spoke virtual networks that contain your workload servers and services. You can also manage firewalls in standalone virtual networks that aren't peered to any spoke.
hub virtual network
This is a standard Azure virtual network that you create and manage yourself. When security policies are associated with such a hub, it's known as ahub virtual network. At this time, only Azure Firewall Policy is supported. You can peer spoke virtual networks that contain your workload servers and services. You can also manage firewalls in standalone virtual networks that aren't peered to any spoke.
Comparison
The following table compares these two architecture options and can help you decide which one is right for your organization's security requirements:
Next steps
ReviewAzure Firewall Manager deployment overview
Learn about secured Virtual Hubs
Learn more about Azure network security
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources