Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Shared responsibility for reliability
Article
2025-02-05
3 contributors
In this article
In the Azure public cloud platform, reliability is a shared responsibility between Microsoft and you. Because there are different levels of reliability in each workload that you design and deploy, it's important that you understand who has primary responsibility for each one of those levels from a reliability perspective.
To help you better understand how shared responsibility works, especially when confronting an outage or disaster, this article describes the shared responsibilitymodelfor resiliency. For more information on how to actually use this model to plan for disaster recovery, seeRecommendations for designing a disaster recovery strategy.
Shared responsibility model for reliability
The shared responsibility model for reliability is composed of three levels:
Core platform reliability. The Azure platform provides a base level of reliability for all customers and all services through the underlying infrastructure, services, and processes.
Resilience-enhancing capabilitiesAzure offers a suite of built-in features and services that enhance resiliency, such as using availability zones, deploying across multiple regions, and implementing backup strategies. While Azure provides these capabilities, it's your responsibility to evaluate and configure them to align with your specific requirements. Requirements can include reliability, cost, performance, and compliance with regulatory standards.
Applications. To make effective use of the other levels, your application and workload must be designed for resiliency.

Microsoft is solely responsible for core platform reliability. Microsoft is also responsible for providing resilience-enhancing capabilities that you can use. You're responsible for selecting and using the appropriate components.
Whether you choose SaaS, PaaS, or IaaS service categories determines what kind of decisions you make. For example, if you use a SaaS service, you typically don't need to opt into using availability zones. If you use PaaS services for your data tier, you might have automated capabilities for backup available to you. If you use IaaS services, you typically need to plan and implement many reliability capabilities yourself.
Note
Service categories (SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS) are useful as a broad grouping of services, but it's important to understand your responsibilities for each individual service you use.
Thereliability guidesprovide an overview of how each service works from a reliability perspective and help you to make informed decisions about how to configure your services to meet your needs.
You're also responsible for your application and workload design, and for defining your reliability requirements, which helps you to decide how to design and configure your solution.
Core platform reliability
The Microsoft cloud platform consists of a large amount of infrastructure, hardware, software, and processes to support service deployment and management. Each component is designed to be highly resilient, with multiple redundancies for hardware and with research-based software processes. Together, these components comprise the core platform reliability level. Some examples of how Microsoft provides a reliable platform include the following:
Networks have redundant links and can dynamically bypass faulty segments.
Within each region, datacenters are connected through a low-latency network, which enables a variety of data replication approaches.
Datacenter facilities have redundant power, cooling, and network connections. They're operated by onsite teams who secure, monitor, and manage them.
Hardware, including clusters and racks, have redundancy at multiple layers.
Updates to compute clusters, racks, and hosts follow a controlled process. We use techniques like hotpatching to reduce or eliminate impact to hosts.
Software platform updates and configuration changes are applied by following our safe deployment practices.
Microsoft audits critical external suppliers to ensure that a third-party outage doesn't disrupt Azure services.
Each Azure service must have a detailed disaster recovery plan. We conduct full-region down drills in regions that match production environments.
All Azure services benefit from these core platform reliability capabilities, and with the ongoing improvements Microsoft makes.
Resilience-enhancing capabilities
Azure provides many different resilience-enhancing capabilities. Although Microsoft is responsible for providing these capabilities, you are entirely responsible for selecting and using the appropriate ones for your needs. Some examples of these capabilities include:
Regions.Azure has over 60 regions, and you can use multiple regions in a single solution to achieve geo-redundancy, meet your data residency needs, and enable low-latency communication to users globally. To learn more about regions, seeWhat are Azure regions?.
Regions.Azure has over 60 regions, and you can use multiple regions in a single solution to achieve geo-redundancy, meet your data residency needs, and enable low-latency communication to users globally. To learn more about regions, seeWhat are Azure regions?.
Availability zones.Many Azure regions support availability zones, which enable you to distribute your workloads across multiple independent sets of datacenters. Azure services support availability zones in a way that suits their intended purpose, usually by supporting zonal deployments (pinned to a single zone) and/or zone-redundant deployments (spread across multiple zones). To learn more about availability zones, seeWhat are availability zones?.
Availability zones.Many Azure regions support availability zones, which enable you to distribute your workloads across multiple independent sets of datacenters. Azure services support availability zones in a way that suits their intended purpose, usually by supporting zonal deployments (pinned to a single zone) and/or zone-redundant deployments (spread across multiple zones). To learn more about availability zones, seeWhat are availability zones?.
Service tiers.Services provide a range of offerings and tiers that suit different requirements. For example, when you create a virtual machine, you can choose between a standard disk, which provides a low-cost option, or a premium disk to achieve a higher level of availability.
Service tiers.Services provide a range of offerings and tiers that suit different requirements. For example, when you create a virtual machine, you can choose between a standard disk, which provides a low-cost option, or a premium disk to achieve a higher level of availability.
Backups.Many Azure services that store data support backups, which might be automatic, manual, or both. With backups, you can protect your workload against outages as well as data corruption and other data loss events.
Backups.Many Azure services that store data support backups, which might be automatic, manual, or both. With backups, you can protect your workload against outages as well as data corruption and other data loss events.
Governance.Platform capabilities like Azure Policy, role-based access control, and Microsoft Entra ID identity protection capabilities, can be configured to enforce your organization's requirements consistently. With these approaches you can protect your workloads against security incidents and accidental changes that might cause downtime or other problems with your workload.
Governance.Platform capabilities like Azure Policy, role-based access control, and Microsoft Entra ID identity protection capabilities, can be configured to enforce your organization's requirements consistently. With these approaches you can protect your workloads against security incidents and accidental changes that might cause downtime or other problems with your workload.
Important
It's important to understand theservice level agreements(SLAs) for each Azure service. SLAs provide important information on the expected uptime of the service, and any conditions you need to meet to be eligible for the SLA. For SLAs for each service, seeService Level Agreements (SLA) for Online Services.
Applications
It's your responsibility to make sure that your applications are designed to be resilient to faults, and to follow other reliability best practices. Use theAzure Well-Architected Frameworkpillars to drive architectural excellence at the fundamental level of a workload. Thereliability pillarfocuses on how you can make your workload and applications resilient to different types of failures, and to enable recovery when failures occur.
Next steps
The shared responsibility model applies to other parts of your solution beyond reliability. For more information on the shared responsibility model for security, seeMicrosoft Trust Center.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources