Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitor Azure SQL workloads with database watcher (preview)
Article
2025-04-21
6 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL DatabaseAzure SQL Managed Instance
Database watcher is a managed monitoring solution for database services in the Azure SQL family. It supportsAzure SQL DatabaseandAzure SQL Managed Instance.
Database watcher collects in-depth workload monitoring data to give you a detailed view of database performance, configuration, and health. Monitoring data from the databases, elastic pools, and SQL managed instances you select iscollectedinto a central data store in your Azure subscription.Dashboardsin Azure portal provide a single-pane-of-glass view of your Azure SQL estate and a detailed view of each database, elastic pool, and SQL managed instance.Alertssend you notifications when database conditions across your Azure SQL estate might require attention.

To store and analyze SQL monitoring data, database watcher can use eitherAzure Data ExplorerorReal-Time Analytics in Microsoft Fabric. Azure Data Explorer is a fully managed, highly scalable data service, purpose-built for fast ingestion and analytics on time-series monitoring data. A single Azure Data Explorer cluster can scale to support monitoring data from thousands of Azure SQL resources. Real-Time Analytics uses the same core engine as a SaaS offering within Microsoft Fabric.
You can query data in an Azure Data Explorer or Real-Time Analytics database usingKQLorT-SQL, build custom visualizations usingAzure Data Explorer dashboards,Power BIorGrafana, and analyze data inExcel. You can set dataretentionpolicy per database or per table, andscaleyour Azure Data Explorer cluster automatically or manually to achieve the optimal price/performance ratio.
To start monitoring your Azure SQL resources, create awatcherresource in your Azure subscription. Configure the watcher by selecting adata storeand a set of databases, elastic pools, or SQL managed instances to monitor, calledSQL targets. Grant the watcher access to targets, and start the watcher.
For the steps to get started quickly, seeQuickstart: monitor Azure SQL with database watcher. For setup and configuration details, seeCreate and configure a database watcher.
For the steps to get started quickly, seeQuickstart: monitor Azure SQL with database watcher. For setup and configuration details, seeCreate and configure a database watcher.
For answers to frequently asked questions about database watcher, seeDatabase watcher FAQ.
For answers to frequently asked questions about database watcher, seeDatabase watcher FAQ.
For a video overview of database watcher, watch aData Exposedepisode:
For a video overview of database watcher, watch aData Exposedepisode:
Note
Database watcher is currently in preview. Preview features are released with limited capabilities, but are made available on apreviewbasis so customers can get early access and provide feedback. Preview features are subject to separatesupplemental preview terms, and aren't subject to SLAs. Support is provided as best effort in certain cases. However, Microsoft Support is eager to get your feedback on the preview functionality, and might provide best effort support in certain cases. Preview features might have limited or restricted functionality, and might be available only in selected geographic areas.
Supported Azure SQL targets
Database watcher supports all service tiers, compute tiers, and service objectives in Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance. This includesvCoreandDTUpurchasing models,provisionedandserverlesscompute tiers,single databasesandelastic pools, andHyperscale.
Database watcher can monitor all types of secondaryreadable replicas, including high availability replicas,geo-replicas, and Hyperscalenamed secondaryreplicas.
For a given watcher, the SQL targets can be in any subscription within the same Microsoft Entra ID tenant.
Database watcher price
Database watcher costs are incurred by its individual components, as follows:
1You can use afree Azure Data Explorer clusterwhen a service level agreement is not required and when query performance and storage requirements are satisfied by the free cluster capacity specifications. The free cluster trial period is for a year and can be extended automatically.
There is no charge per monitored Azure SQL resource or per user, making database watcher an inexpensive monitoring solution for larger Azure SQL environments and larger teams.
Regional availability
At this time, you can create database watchers in the following Azure regions:
Tip
A watcher in one Azure region can monitor targets in another region. Similarly, a watcher and its data store can be located in different regions.
When possible, colocate a watcher, its targets, and its data store in the same region. If database watcher is not yet available in your region, choose a region in the same Azuregeography. This can reduce Azure network bandwidth costs.
Limits
There is a limit on the number of SQL targets per watcher, and the number of watchers per subscription. Deployments exceeding these limits are not supported.
1A high availability replica of a database, elastic pool, or SQL managed instance is monitored independently of its parent replica, and is considered a separate target.
Note
During preview, limits are subject to change.
Dashboards
Database watcher usesAzure Workbooksto provide monitoring dashboards at the estate level and at the resource level.
Here is an example of a database CPU utilization heatmap on the estate dashboard. Each hexagon represents a SQL target. There are two logical servers, one with six databases and one with three databases. The high availability secondary replicas are shown on the heatmap as separate targets. Select the image to see additional details, including data ingestion statistics.

Here is an example showing a partial view of thePerformancetab of an Azure SQL database dashboard. Select the image to zoom into details.

The following table describes the capabilities of database watcher dashboards in the Azure portal.
csv
Note
During preview, dashboard visualizations and capabilities are subject to change.
SQL monitoring data
Database watcher collects monitoring data from more than 70 SQLcatalog viewsanddynamic management views(DMVs). Data from one or multiple related views is transformed into a dataset. For example, data fromsys.dm_exec_sessions,sys.dm_exec_requests, and other views forms theActive sessionsdataset. For eachdataset, there is a separate table in the Azure Data Explorer or Real-Time Analytics database.
Database watcher has separate dataset groups for databases, elastic pools, and SQL managed instances. There are 10 to 30 datasets in each group, providing a detailed view of database performance, configuration, and health for your Azure SQL resources.
For more information, seeDatabase watcher data collection and datasets.
Alerts
Database watcher provides a set of alert rule templates to let you easily create Azure Monitor alert rules. After an alert rule is created, you can customize it and manage it just like any other alert rule in Azure Monitor. For more information, seeDatabase watcher alerts.
Network connectivity
Database watcher uses a remote data collection agent that connects to targets, data store, and key vault over the network. Depending on your network security requirements and the configuration of your Azure resources, database watcher can use either private or public connectivity. You always fully control network connectivity from database watcher to your Azure resources.
For more information about network connectivity in Azure SQL, seeAzure SQL Database connectivity architectureandAzure SQL Managed Instance connectivity architecture.
Private connectivity
To provide private connectivity, database watcher usesAzure Private Link. When you configure a watcher, you cancreate managed private endpointsto let the watcher connect to databases and elastic pools onlogical servers, or to SQL managed instances. You can also create a private endpoint for the Azure Data Explorer cluster, and for the key vault storing SQL authentication credentials. At this time, private connectivity is not available for connections to Real-Time Analytics in Microsoft Fabric.
A resource owner must approve a private endpoint before database watcher can use it. Conversely, resource owners can delete any database watcher private endpoint at any time to stop data collection.
Once a private endpoint for an Azure resource is created and approved, all network traffic between a watcher and the resource uses private connectivity, even if public connectivity for the resource remains enabled.
For more information about private endpoints in Azure SQL, seeAzure Private Link for Azure SQL DatabaseandAzure Private Link for Azure SQL Managed Instance.
Public connectivity
If private connectivity is not required, database watcher can use public connectivity to connect to Azure resources. To enable a watcher to connect to databases and elastic pools on an Azure SQL Database logical server,public accessto the server must be enabled, and theIP-based firewallmust allow connections from all Azure services.
To enable a watcher to connect to a SQL managed instance using public connectivity, the instance must have its public endpoint enabled. Additionally, a Network Security Group (NSG) rule that allows inbound traffic on TCP port 3342 to the managed instance subnet must have its source set toAzureCloud. For more information, seeConfigure public endpoints in Azure SQL Managed Instance.
AzureCloud
To enable a watcher to connect to an Azure Data Explorer cluster or a key vault using public connectivity, the cluster or vault must have its network access enabled from all networks.
Data access
Just like network connectivity, you fully control database watcher access to your databases. You grant access by creating dedicated database watcher logins on logical servers and SQL managed instances, and then granting specific, limited permissions to collect monitoring data from SQL system views.
Watcher authentication
Database watcher supportsMicrosoft Entra authentication(previously known as Azure Active Directory authentication). This is the preferred and recommended way for a watcher to authenticate to a SQL target. You create a Microsoft Entra authentication login for themanaged identityof the watcher on all logical servers and SQL managed instances that you want to monitor.
Database watcher also supports password-based SQL authentication. You might use SQL authentication if Microsoft Entra authentication is not enabled on your Azure SQL resources. For more information, seeAdditional configuration to use SQL authentication.
Watcher authorization
To collect monitoring data, database watcher requires specific, limited access to each monitoring target, as described in the following table. These role memberships and permissions give the watcher the necessary access to the system monitoring data, but not to any other data in your databases.
##MS_ServerPerformanceStateReader##
##MS_DefinitionReader##
##MS_DatabaseConnector##
CONNECT SQL
CONNECT ANY DATABASE
VIEW ANY DATABASE
VIEW ANY DEFINITION
VIEW SERVER PERFORMANCE STATE
SELECT
msdb
dbo.backupmediafamily
dbo.backupmediaset
dbo.backupset
dbo.suspect_pages
dbo.syscategories
dbo.sysjobactivity
dbo.sysjobhistory
dbo.sysjobs
dbo.sysjobsteps
dbo.sysoperators
dbo.syssessions
Important
When a watcher connects to an Azure SQL resource, it validates the SQL permissions it holds. If the permissions granted are insufficient, orif unnecessary permissions are granted, the watcher disconnects. This ensures that the watcher can collect system monitoring data, but is not accidentally granted access to any other data in your databases.
When configuring watcher access to a SQL target, alwayscreate a dedicated login using provided scripts. Do not add the watcher login or user to any SQL roles or grant any SQL permissions other than the ones listed in the table.
If youdenythe required permissions to the database watcher login or user, or to a role that has the database watcher login or user as a member (including thepublicdatabase role), then database watcher might not collect monitoring data. Depending on which permissions are denied, this might affect some or all datasets.
public
Conversely, if yougrantunnecessary permissions to the database watcher login or user, or to a role that has the database watcher login or user as a member, then database watcher might not collect monitoring data for some or all datasets. Similarly, data might not be collected if you add the database watcher login or user to a built-in server or database role.
What's new
This section describes recent database watcher fixes, changes, and improvements.
subscription_id
resource_group_name
resource_id
Limitations
This section describes database watcher limitations. Workarounds are provided if available.
Known issues
During preview, database watcher has the following known issues.
ALTER LOGIN [database-watcher-login-placeholder] WITH CHECK_POLICY = OFF;
database-watcher-login-placeholder
EXECUTE
sys.xp_msver
public
EXECUTE
sys.xp_msver
USE master; CREATE USER [database-watcher-login-placeholder] FOR LOGIN [database-watcher-login-placeholder]; GRANT EXECUTE ON sys.xp_msver TO [database-watcher-login-placeholder];
database-watcher-login-placeholder
resourceIdColumn
resource_id
Troubleshoot
This section describes the steps you can take to solve common problems. If the steps in this section don't solve the problem,open a support case.
Data is not collected
If you create a new watcher and do not see monitoring data on dashboards and in the data store, or if you only see older data, review this section.
On the watcherOverviewpage, check theStatusfield to see if the watcher is running. If not, use theStartbutton on the same page to start data collection. A new watcher is notstartedautomatically.
On the watcherOverviewpage, check theStatusfield to see if the watcher is running. If not, use theStartbutton on the same page to start data collection. A new watcher is notstartedautomatically.
Check that the watcher hasaccess to the data store.
Check that the watcher hasaccess to the data store.
If you use an Azure Data Explorer database as the data store, check that the Azure Data Explorer cluster is started. For more information, seeStopped Azure Data Explorer clusters.
If you use an Azure Data Explorer database as the data store, check that the Azure Data Explorer cluster is started. For more information, seeStopped Azure Data Explorer clusters.
Check that the watcher has the specific, limitedaccess to SQL targets. Additionally, if using SQL authentication for any targets, check watcheraccess to key vault, or use the recommended Microsoft Entra authentication instead.
Check that the watcher has the specific, limitedaccess to SQL targets. Additionally, if using SQL authentication for any targets, check watcheraccess to key vault, or use the recommended Microsoft Entra authentication instead.
If you want the watcher to use Microsoft Entra authentication to connect to SQL targets, make sure thatMicrosoft Entra authentication is enabledon the logical servers hosting the database and elastic pool targets, and on the managed instance targets.
If you want the watcher to use Microsoft Entra authentication to connect to SQL targets, make sure thatMicrosoft Entra authentication is enabledon the logical servers hosting the database and elastic pool targets, and on the managed instance targets.
If you created any private endpoints for the watcher, make sure that they are approved by the resource owner.
If you created any private endpoints for the watcher, make sure that they are approved by the resource owner.
If you are using public connectivity, make sure that therequirementsto allow the watcher to connect to targets, data store, and key vault are met.
If you are using public connectivity, make sure that therequirementsto allow the watcher to connect to targets, data store, and key vault are met.
The Azure Data Explorer cluster or database, or the Real-Time Analytics database might have been deleted after it was selected as the data store for your watcher. Navigate to the cluster and the database, and confirm that they exist.
The Azure Data Explorer cluster or database, or the Real-Time Analytics database might have been deleted after it was selected as the data store for your watcher. Navigate to the cluster and the database, and confirm that they exist.
If you are using the free Azure Data Explorer cluster, make sure that you haven't reached thestorage capacityof the cluster. For more information, seeFree Azure Data Explorer cluster.
If you are using the free Azure Data Explorer cluster, make sure that you haven't reached thestorage capacityof the cluster. For more information, seeFree Azure Data Explorer cluster.
If you make changes to watcher access or connectivity as part of troubleshooting, you might need to stop and restart the watcher for the changes to take effect.
Dashboards are blank
If you select theDashboardspage of a watcher, but do not see a summary of SQL targets on the page, expand theData storesection. If you see aCannot connect ...error, review this section.
You might not have access to the data store. For more information, seeGrant users and groups access to the data store.
You might not have access to the data store. For more information, seeGrant users and groups access to the data store.
You might not have network connectivity to the data store. For example, this happens if connections from your browser to the Azure Data Explorer cluster use public connectivity, but youdisable public accessto the cluster. In that case, you also cannot connect to the cluster fromKusto Exploreror the Azure Data Explorerweb UI.To resolve this, establish private connectivity from your machine to the Azure Data Explorer cluster as described inPrivate connectivity to the data store.
You might not have network connectivity to the data store. For example, this happens if connections from your browser to the Azure Data Explorer cluster use public connectivity, but youdisable public accessto the cluster. In that case, you also cannot connect to the cluster fromKusto Exploreror the Azure Data Explorerweb UI.
To resolve this, establish private connectivity from your machine to the Azure Data Explorer cluster as described inPrivate connectivity to the data store.
To validate that you have access and can connect to the data store, and that the data store database exists, follow these steps:
On theDashboardspage of a watcher, expand theData storesection, and copy theKusto query URIvalue. Make sure to copy the entire URI string. Make a note of theKusto databasevalue as well.
On theDashboardspage of a watcher, expand theData storesection, and copy theKusto query URIvalue. Make sure to copy the entire URI string. Make a note of theKusto databasevalue as well.
Open the Azure Data Explorerweb UI. Sign in if prompted.
Open the Azure Data Explorerweb UI. Sign in if prompted.
SelectAdd,Connection, and enter the copied URI as theConnection URI.
SelectAdd,Connection, and enter the copied URI as theConnection URI.
SelectAddto create a new connection.
SelectAddto create a new connection.
Once a new connection entry is added, expand it to view the databases.
Once a new connection entry is added, expand it to view the databases.
Select the database referenced as theKusto databaseon theDashboardspage of your watcher, and select the+sign on the tab bar to open a new query tab connected to this database.
Select the database referenced as theKusto databaseon theDashboardspage of your watcher, and select the+sign on the tab bar to open a new query tab connected to this database.
Run the following KQL command:.show database principals;Check that a row for aVieweror a higher privileged role exists for your user account, or for a Microsoft Entra ID group that contains your user account.
Run the following KQL command:
.show database principals;
.show database principals;
Check that a row for aVieweror a higher privileged role exists for your user account, or for a Microsoft Entra ID group that contains your user account.
Send feedback
The database watcher team at Microsoft is looking forward to your comments and suggestions. You can send product feedback in one of the following ways:
Post a new idea in theSQL feedback forum. On thePost a new ideapage, useSQLas the forum, select theAzure SQLgroup, and includedatabase watcherin the title. The feedback you submit in the feedback forum is public. Other community members can upvote and comment on your ideas and suggestions. Community votes and comments help the database watcher team plan and prioritize product improvements.
Use the feedback button on one of database watcher pages in the Azure portal. For example, you can find the feedback button on the watcherOverviewpage, or on dashboards next to the refresh button. The feedback you send this way is not public. When you submit feedback, you can optionally allow Microsoft to email you regarding this feedback for follow-ups and clarifications.
For technical support or help solving a problem with database watcher,open a support case.
Related content
Quickstart: Create a database watcher to monitor Azure SQL (preview)
Create and configure a database watcher (preview)
Database watcher data collection and datasets (preview)
Analyze database watcher monitoring data (preview)
Database watcher alerts (preview)
Database watcher FAQ
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources