Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Lead Time and Cycle Time widgets
Article
2025-03-13
12 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
The Lead Time and Cycle Time widgets indicate how long it takes for work to flow through your development pipeline. Lead time measures the total time elapsed from the creation of work items to their completion. Cycle time measures the time it takes for your team to complete work items once they begin actively working on them.
The following diagram illustrates how lead time differs from cycle time. Lead time is calculated fromWork Item Creationto entering aCompletedstate. Cycle time is calculated from first entering anIn Progress or Resolvedstate category to entering aCompletedstate category. For more information, seeAbout workflow states in backlogs and boards.

These measures help teams plan, identify variations in efficiency, and spot potential process issues. Lower lead and cycle times indicate faster team throughput. We recommend checking the lead time and cycle time charts before or during each retrospective. Use lead time to estimate delivery times and track service level agreements (SLAs). Use cycle time to identify process issues, spot variations in trends, and assist with planning.
For more information, seeCumulative flow, lead time, and cycle time guidance.
Prerequisites

Add the widget to your dashboard
Ensure your team's board is configured with definedcolumnsandswimlanesthat support your workflow processes.
Ensure your team's board is configured with definedcolumnsandswimlanesthat support your workflow processes.
Add the widget to your dashboard. There are two widgets:Cycle TimeandLead Time. Select the one you want to display and configure.
Add the widget to your dashboard. There are two widgets:Cycle TimeandLead Time. Select the one you want to display and configure.

Configure the Cycle Time and Lead Time widgets
The Configuration dialog is the same for the Cycle Time and Lead Time widgets. Configure these widgets for a team. For more information, seeCreate or add a team.
Select thecontext menu icon and selectConfigureto open the configuration dialog.
Select thecontext menu icon and selectConfigureto open the configuration dialog.
Modify the title, and then select the values you want to monitor:TeamWork itemsSwimlaneField criteriaTime periodTo select aSwimlane, selectBacklog.NoteYou can only select work item types that are added to a backlog. To add work item types to a backlog, seeCustomize your backlogs or boards (Inheritance process). For On-premises XML process, seeProcess configuration XML element reference.
Modify the title, and then select the values you want to monitor:
Team
Work items
Swimlane
Field criteria
Time period

To select aSwimlane, selectBacklog.
Note
You can only select work item types that are added to a backlog. To add work item types to a backlog, seeCustomize your backlogs or boards (Inheritance process). For On-premises XML process, seeProcess configuration XML element reference.
To further filter the work items used to calculate the lead or cycle time, specify theField Criteria. For example, all the work items whose Release field is set to Milestone 1.NoteSupplying no values to the filter might lead to selection of all work items, or might be an invalid filter argument depending on type of filter criteria.
To further filter the work items used to calculate the lead or cycle time, specify theField Criteria. For example, all the work items whose Release field is set to Milestone 1.

Note
Supplying no values to the filter might lead to selection of all work items, or might be an invalid filter argument depending on type of filter criteria.
For a continuous flow, selectRolling periodand specify the number of days you want to view on the chart.Or, for a fixed scope view, select and specify theStart date. Select this view if your team employs a Scrumban process or follows a standard sprint process. The main difference between these two types of charts is that the fixed scope chart provides information of scope change in most cases.
For a continuous flow, selectRolling periodand specify the number of days you want to view on the chart.
Or, for a fixed scope view, select and specify theStart date. Select this view if your team employs a Scrumban process or follows a standard sprint process. The main difference between these two types of charts is that the fixed scope chart provides information of scope change in most cases.
SelectSavewhen you're done. The following image shows an example Lead Time chart showing 60 days of data.For your lead time and cycle time charts to provide useful data, your team must quicklyupdate the statusof those work items that the widgets track.
SelectSavewhen you're done. The following image shows an example Lead Time chart showing 60 days of data.

For your lead time and cycle time charts to provide useful data, your team must quicklyupdate the statusof those work items that the widgets track.
Interpret the scatter-plot control charts
Both Lead Time and Cycle Time widgets display as scatter-plot control charts. They display summary information and provide several interactive elements.
Example Lead Time widget

The chart dots represent completed work items, and their position on the horizontal axis represents the date the team completed them. Their position on the vertical axis represents the calculated lead time or cycle time.
Larger dots represent multiple work items with the same lead time or cycle time
Dot color corresponds to the work item type displayed in the legend
Dark gray dots correspond to a mix of work item types
Summary elements
Days on average (average lead time or cycle time) for the main work item types configured for the chart. This number might not be equal to the average cycle time or lead time of all work items. It depends on configurations you use for the widgets. The average number is calculated based on each day the team takes time for work item.
The number of backlog work items used in the chart calculations. If there are more than three types of work items, you see a summary forOther.
The black trend line indicates the moving average.
The band around the trend line shows the standard deviation.
Interactive elements
Hover over any dot to see which work items contributed to the data point and the lead time or cycle time for those items.
Select a dot to open the work item or query that lists the work items.
Filter the chart by selecting a work item type in the legend (,, or other icon) to filter on that type. To return to the original chart, refresh the dashboard.
Moving average and standard deviation calculations
Daily moving average: The average of data points within the moving average window, calculated based on the current day and previousNdays.Nis 20% of the number of days the chart displays, rounded down to the nearest odd number.Example: If the chart displays the last 30 days, thenN= 5 days (20% of 30 days is 6, rounded down to 5).
Daily moving average: The average of data points within the moving average window, calculated based on the current day and previousNdays.Nis 20% of the number of days the chart displays, rounded down to the nearest odd number.
Example: If the chart displays the last 30 days, thenN= 5 days (20% of 30 days is 6, rounded down to 5).
Moving average window: For April 10, the window corresponds to the previous five days. The April 10 moving average is the average of all data points from April 5 to April 10.If there are no data points within the moving average window, the chart doesn't show a moving average line. This behavior can occur if there aren't enough days to calculate a moving average.
Moving average window: For April 10, the window corresponds to the previous five days. The April 10 moving average is the average of all data points from April 5 to April 10.
If there are no data points within the moving average window, the chart doesn't show a moving average line. This behavior can occur if there aren't enough days to calculate a moving average.
Standard deviation: Appears as a band around the moving average and gets calculated based on all data points within the same moving average window.If no data points fall within the moving average window, the chart doesn't plot standard deviation.
Standard deviation: Appears as a band around the moving average and gets calculated based on all data points within the same moving average window.
If no data points fall within the moving average window, the chart doesn't plot standard deviation.
Use a REST API to add a widget
To programmatically add a widget, use the following API endpoint:
POST https://dev.azure.com/{organization}/{project}/{team}/_apis/dashboard/dashboards/{dashboardId}/widgets?api-version=7.1-preview.2
POST https://dev.azure.com/{organization}/{project}/{team}/_apis/dashboard/dashboards/{dashboardId}/widgets?api-version=7.1-preview.2
For more information, seeREST API - Get widget.
Related articles
Get guidance on cumulative flow, lead time, and cycle time
Learn about Kanban boards
View and configure a Cumulative Flow Diagram
Understand workflow states in backlogs and boards
Explore Agile, Scrum, and CMMI processes
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources