Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Enable logging with Azure Monitor
Article
2025-04-17
10 contributors
In this article
Communications Services provides monitoring and analytics features viaAzure Monitor Logs overviewandAzure Monitor Metrics. Each Azure resource requires its own diagnostic setting, which defines the following criteria:
Categories of logs and metric data sent to the destinations defined in the setting. The available categories vary for different resource types.
One or more destinations to send the logs. Current destinations include Log Analytics workspace, Event Hubs, and Azure Storage.
A single diagnostic setting can define no more than one of each of the destinations. If you want to send data to more than one of a particular destination type (for example, two different Log Analytics workspaces), then create multiple settings. Each resource can have up to five diagnostic settings.
The following instructions describe how to configure your Azure Monitor resource to start creating logs and metrics for your Communications Services. For more information about using Diagnostic Settings across all Azure resources, see:Diagnostic Settings.
These instructions apply to the following Communications Services logs:
Call Summary and Call Diagnostic logs
SMS Diagnostic logs
Access Diagnostic Settings
To access Diagnostic Settings for your Communications Services, open your Communications Services home page within Azure portal:

From there, clickDiagnostic settingsin the Monitoring section of the left-hand navigation pane:

ClickAdd diagnostic setting. There are various logs and metrics sources available for Communications Services:

Adding a Diagnostic Setting
The system prompts you to choose a name for your diagnostic setting, which is useful if you have many Azure resources to monitor. The system also prompts you to select the log and metric data sources you wish to monitor as either logs or metrics. SeeAzure Monitor data platformfor more detail on the difference.

Choose Destinations
The system also prompts you to select a destination to store the logs. Platform logs and metrics can be sent to the destinations in the following table. For more information, seeCreate diagnostic settings to send platform logs and metrics to different destinations..
The following settings are an example of what you would see within your Communications Services resource:

All settings are viable and flexible options that you can adapt to your specific storage needs. We also provide other features and built in analytic insights if you select the Log Analytics Workspace option.
Log Analytics Workspace for more analytics features
By choosing to send your logs to aLog Analytics workspacedestination, you enable more features within Azure Monitor generally and for your Communications Services. Log Analytics is a tool within Azure portal used to create, edit, and runquerieswith data in your Azure Monitor logs and metrics andWorkbooks,alerts,notification actions,REST API access, and many others. If you don't have a Log Analytics workspace, you mustcreate one before you proceed.
For your Communications Services logs, we provided a usefuldefault query packto provide an initial set of insights to quickly analyze and understand your data. These query packs are described here:Log Analytics for Communications Services.
Next steps
If you don't have a Log Analytics workspace to send your data to, you must create one before you proceed. For more information, seeCreate a Log Analytics workspace.
If you don't have a Log Analytics workspace to send your data to, you must create one before you proceed. For more information, seeCreate a Log Analytics workspace.
You may start a Diagnostic Setting to use certain capabilities by enabling collection for all logs. However, you should monitor costs associated with logs from Diagnostic Settings. For more information, seeControlling costs.
You may start a Diagnostic Setting to use certain capabilities by enabling collection for all logs. However, you should monitor costs associated with logs from Diagnostic Settings. For more information, seeControlling costs.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources