Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
App Service overview
Article
2025-04-24
30 contributors
In this article
Azure App Service is a platform that lets you run web applications, mobile back ends, and RESTful APIs without worrying about managing the underlying infrastructure. Think of it as a powerful web hosting service that takes care of all the heavy lifting for you, so can focus on creating great applications.
App Serivce supports a variety of web stacks: .NET, Java (in Java SE, Tomcat, and JBoss flavors), Node.js, Python, and PHP, and can run them on both Windows and Linux. Or, if your app is containerized, you can just deploy it as a custom container.
Why Use Azure App Service?
Whether you're a student, a small business, a startup, or an enterprise, App Service offers a wide range of features tailored to meet your needs.
Students
Free access: In addition to the widely-availablefree tier, students can take advantage of theAzure for Students Starterprogram.
IDE support: Purpose-built deployment tools are available for Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ, and Eclipse.
Easy to use: Run your apps without needing experience in infrastructure management.
Learning Resources: Plenty of tutorials and guides to help you get started.
Small businesses and startups
Brand security: Protect your brand and your customers quickly with anApp Service domainand afree managed certificate. Or, bring your domain and certificate to App Service.
Cost-effective: Pay only for the resources you use, and scaleuporoutwith your business.
Command-line friendly: Deploy using command line tools you already use, such as Maven, Gradle, Azure Developer CLI, Azure CLI, and Azure PowerShell.
Scalability: Automatically scale your applications based on demand.
Global reach: Deploy your apps in data centers around the world.
Application templates: Choose from an extensive list of application templates in theAzure Marketplace, such as WordPress, Joomla, and Drupal.
Social sign-in support: Turn-key social sign-in withGoogle,Facebook,X, andMicrosoft accounts.
Enterprises
CI/CD:Deploy continuouslywith GitHub Actions, Azure Pipelines, and more. Deploy predictably throughstaging environments.
High-density hosting savings: Run more applications on fewer VMs with the memory-optimizedP*mv3 tiers, and save up to 55% on predictable workloads withAzure savings plansandreserved instances.
Full isolation: Secure ingress and egress withAzure Virtual Network integration, or run fully isolated applications withApp Service environments, using dedicated networking and VMs.
Line-of-business: Develop business applications easily with built-in authentication, Microsoft Graph, andconnectorsto your line-of-business applications.
Reliability: RobustSLAand zone redundancy features help disaster-proof your application.
Security and compliance:ISO, SOC, and PCI compliancemeet the strictest requirements of large enterprises.
For information about which Azure compute services best fit your scenario, seeChoose an Azure compute service.
Next Steps
Getting started with Azure App Service
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources