Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Prepay for Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server compute resources with reserved capacity
Article
2024-12-16
4 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server helps you save money by prepaying for compute resources, compared to pay-as-you-go prices. With Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server reserved capacity, you make an upfront commitment on Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server for a one-year or three-year period. This commitment gives you a significant discount on the compute costs.
To purchase Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server reserved capacity, you need to specify the Azure region, deployment type, performance tier, and term.
How instance reservations work
You don't need to assign the reservation to specific Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instances. An already running Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance (or one that's newly deployed) automatically gets the benefit of reserved pricing.
By purchasing a reservation, you're prepaying for the compute costs for one or three years. As soon as you buy a reservation, the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server compute charges that match the reservation attributes are no longer charged at the pay-as-you go rates.
A reservation doesn't cover software, networking, or storage charges associated with the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instances. At the end of the reservation term, the billing benefit expires, and the vCores that Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instances use are billed at the pay-as-you go price. Reservations don't automatically renew. For pricing information, see theAzure Database for PostgreSQL reserved capacity offering.
You can buy Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server reserved capacity in theAzure portal. Pay for the reservationup front or with monthly payments. To buy the reserved capacity:
To buy a reservation, you must have owner role or reservation purchaser role on an Azure subscription.
For EA subscriptions,Add Reserved Instancesmust be turned on in theEA portal. Or, if that setting is off, you must be an EA admin on the subscription.
For the Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program, only the admin agents or sales agents can purchase Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server reserved capacity.
For details on how enterprise customers and pay-as-you-go customers are charged for reservation purchases, seeunderstand Azure reservation usage for your Enterprise Agreement enrollmentandunderstand Azure reservation usage for your pay-as-you-go subscription.
Reservation exchanges and refunds
You can exchange a reservation for another reservation of the same type. You can also exchange a reservation from Azure Database for PostgreSQL single server with Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server. It's also possible to refund a reservation, if you no longer need it.
You can use the Azure portal to exchange or refund a reservation. For more information, seeSelf-service exchanges and refunds for Azure reservations.
Reservation discount
You can save up to 65% on compute costs with reserved instances. To find the discount for your case, go to theReservation pane on the Azure portaland check the savings per pricing tier and per region.
Reserved instances help you manage your workloads, budget, and forecast better with an upfront payment for a one-year or three-year term. You can also exchange or cancel reservations as business needs change.
Determining the right server size before purchase
You should base the size of a reservation on the total amount of compute that the existing or soon-to-be-deployed servers use within a specific region at the same performance tier and hardware generation.
For example, suppose that:
You're running one general-purpose Gen5 32-vCore PostgreSQL database, and two memory-optimized Gen5 16-vCore PostgreSQL databases.
Within the next month, you plan to deploy another general-purpose Gen5 8-vCore database server and one memory-optimized Gen5 32-vCore database server.
You know that you need these resources for at least one year.
In this case, you should purchase both:
A 40-vCore (32 + 8), one-year reservation for single-database general-purpose Gen5
A 64-vCore (2x16 + 32) one-year reservation for single-database memory-optimized Gen5
Procedure for buying Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server reserved capacity
Sign in to theAzure portal.
SelectAll services>Reservations.
SelectAdd. On thePurchase reservationspane, selectAzure Database for PostgreSQLto purchase a new reservation for your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server databases.
Fill in the required fields. Existing or new databases that match the attributes you select qualify to get the reserved capacity discount. The actual number of your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instances that get the discount depends on the selected scope and quantity.

The following table describes the required fields.
API support for reserved instances
Use Azure APIs to programmatically get information for your organization about Azure service or software reservations. For example, use the APIs to:
Find reservations to buy.
Buy a reservation.
View purchased reservations.
View and manage reservation access.
Split or merge reservations.
Change the scope of reservations.
For more information, seeAPIs for Azure reservation automation.
vCore size flexibility
vCore size flexibility helps you scale up or down within a performance tier and region, without losing the reserved capacity benefit. If you scale to higher vCores than your reserved capacity, you're billed for the excess vCores at pay-as-you-go pricing.
How to view reserved instance purchase details
You can view your reserved instance purchase details via theReservations item on the left side of the Azure portal.
Reserved instance expiration
You receive an email notification 30 days before a reservation expires and another notification at expiration. After the reservation expires, deployed virtual machines continue to run and be billed at a pay-as-you-go rate.
Support
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Next steps
The vCore reservation discount is applied automatically to the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instances that match the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server reserved capacity scope and attributes. You can update the scope of the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server reserved capacity through the Azure portal, PowerShell, Azure CLI, or REST APIs.
Related content
What are Azure reservations?
Manage Azure reservations
Understand Azure reservation discounts
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise Agreement enrollment
Azure reservations in the Partner Center CSP program
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources