Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor workspace
Article
2025-04-17
2 contributors
In this article
An Azure Monitor workspace is a unique environment for data collected by Azure Monitor. Each workspace has its own data repository, configuration, and permissions.
Note
Log Analytics workspaces contain logs and metrics data from multiple Azure resources, whereas Azure Monitor workspaces currently contain only metrics related to Prometheus.
Contents of Azure Monitor workspace
Azure Monitor workspaces will eventually contain all metric data collected by Azure Monitor. Currently, only Prometheus metrics are data hosted in an Azure Monitor workspace.
Azure Monitor workspace architecture
While a single Azure Monitor workspace can be sufficient for many use cases using Azure Monitor, many organizations create multiple workspaces to better meet their needs. This article presents a set of criteria for deciding whether to use a single Azure Monitor workspace, multiple Azure Monitor workspaces, and the configuration and placement of those workspaces.
Design criteria
As you identify the right criteria to create additional Azure Monitor workspaces, your design should use the lowest number of workspaces that will match your requirements, while optimizing for minimal administrative management overhead.
The following table presents criteria to consider when designing an Azure Monitor workspace architecture.
Considerations when creating an Azure Monitor workspace
Azure Monitor workspaces are regional. When you create a new Azure Monitor workspace, you provide a region which sets the location in which the data is stored.
Azure Monitor workspaces are regional. When you create a new Azure Monitor workspace, you provide a region which sets the location in which the data is stored.
Start with a single workspace to reduce the complexity of managing and querying data from multiple Azure resources.
Start with a single workspace to reduce the complexity of managing and querying data from multiple Azure resources.
The default Azure Monitor workspace limit is 1 million active times series and 1 million events per minute ingested.
The default Azure Monitor workspace limit is 1 million active times series and 1 million events per minute ingested.
There's no reduction in performance due to the amount of data in your Azure Monitor workspace. Multiple services can send data to the same account simultaneously. There is, however, a limit on how much an Azure Monitor workspace can scale, as explained below.
There's no reduction in performance due to the amount of data in your Azure Monitor workspace. Multiple services can send data to the same account simultaneously. There is, however, a limit on how much an Azure Monitor workspace can scale, as explained below.
Growing account capacity
Azure Monitor workspaces have default quotas and limitations for metrics. As your product grows and you need more metrics, you can request an increase to 50 million events or active time series. If your capacity needs to be exceptionally large and your data ingestion needs can no longer be met by a single Azure Monitor workspace, consider creating multiple Azure Monitor workspaces.
Multiple Azure Monitor workspaces
When an Azure Monitor workspace reaches 80% of its maximum capacity or is forecasted to reach that volume of metrics, it's recommended to split the Azure Monitor workspace into multiple workspaces. You should split the workspace based on how the data in the workspace is used by your applications and business processes and by how you want to access that data in the future.
In certain circumstances, splitting an Azure Monitor workspace into multiple workspaces can be necessary. For example:
Monitoring data in sovereign clouds: Create an Azure Monitor workspace in each sovereign cloud.
Monitoring data in sovereign clouds: Create an Azure Monitor workspace in each sovereign cloud.
Compliance or regulatory requirements that mandate storage of data in specific regions: Create an Azure Monitor workspace per region as per requirements. There might be a need to manage the scale of metrics for large services or financial institutions with regional accounts.
Compliance or regulatory requirements that mandate storage of data in specific regions: Create an Azure Monitor workspace per region as per requirements. There might be a need to manage the scale of metrics for large services or financial institutions with regional accounts.
Separating metrics in test, pre-production, and production environments: Create an Azure Monitor workspace per environment.
Separating metrics in test, pre-production, and production environments: Create an Azure Monitor workspace per environment.
Note
A single query cannot access multiple Azure Monitor workspaces. Keep data that you want to retrieve in a single query in same workspace. For visualization purposes, setting up Grafana with each workspace as a dedicated data source will allow for querying multiple workspaces in a single Grafana panel.
Limitations
SeeAzure Monitor service limitsfor performance related service limits for Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus.
Data considerations
Data stored in the Azure Monitor workspace is handled in accordance with all standards described in theAzure Trust Center. Several considerations exist specific to data stored in the Azure Monitor Workspace:
Data is physically stored in the same region that the Azure Monitor Workspace is provisioned in
Data is encrypted at rest using a Microsoft-managed key
Data is retained for 18 months
For details about the Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus' support of PII/EUII data, seeAzure Monitor and Prometheus.
Regional availability
When you create a new Azure Monitor workspace, you provide a region which sets the location in which the data is stored. Currently Azure Monitor Workspace is available in the below regions.
1Managed Prometheus for Arc-Enabled Kubernetes clusters is still in preview in these regions.
If you have clusters in regions where Azure Monitor Workspace is not yet available, you can select another region in the same geography.
Frequently asked questions
This section provides answers to common questions.
What's the difference between an Azure Monitor workspace and a Log Analytics workspace?
An Azure Monitor workspace is a unique environment for data collected by Azure Monitor. Each workspace has its own data repository, configuration, and permissions. Azure Monitor workspaces will eventually contain all metrics collected by Azure Monitor, including native metrics. Currently, the only data hosted by an Azure Monitor workspace is Prometheus metrics.
You cannot use quota limits, similar to the Log Analytics Workspace (Daily Cap or Data retention) in the Azure Monitor workspace.
Can I delete Prometheus metrics from an Azure Monitor workspace?
Data is removed from the Azure Monitor workspace according to its data retention period, which is 18 months.
Next steps
Learn more about theAzure Monitor data platform.
Manage an Azure Monitor workspace.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources