Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is entitlement management?
Article
2024-11-25
25 contributors
In this article
Entitlement management is anidentity governancefeature that enables organizations to manage identity and access lifecycle at scale, by automating access request workflows, access assignments, reviews, and expiration.
People in organizations need access to various groups, applications, and SharePoint Online sites to perform their job. Managing this access is challenging, as requirements change. New applications are added or users need more access rights. This scenario gets more complicated when you collaborate with outside organizations. You might not know who in the other organization needs access to your organization's resources, and they won't know what applications, groups, or sites your organization is using.
Entitlement management can help you more efficiently manage access to groups, applications, and SharePoint Online sites for internal users, and also for users outside your organization who need access to those resources.
Why use entitlement management?
Enterprise organizations often face challenges when managing workforce access to resources such as:
Users might not know what access they should have, and even if they do, they could have difficulty locating the right individuals to approve their access
Once users find and receive access to a resource, they could hold on to access longer than is required for business purposes
These problems are compounded for users who need access from another organization, such as external users that are from supply chain organizations or other business partners. For example:
No one person might know all of the specific individuals in other organization's directories to be able to invite them
Even if they were able to invite these users, no one in that organization might remember to manage all of the users' access consistently
Entitlement management can help address these challenges. To learn more about how customers have been using entitlement management, you can read theMississippi Division of Medicaid,Storebrand,Nippon Express Co., LtdandDigital Security and Resilience team at Microsoftcase studies.  This video provides an overview of entitlement management and its value:
What can I do with entitlement management?
Here are some of capabilities of entitlement management:
Control who can get access to applications, groups, Teams and SharePoint sites, with multi-stage approval, and ensure users don't retain access indefinitely through time-limited assignments and recurring access reviews.
Give users access automatically to those resources, based on the user's properties like department or cost center, and remove a user's access when those properties change.
Delegate to nonadministrators the ability to create access packages. These access packages contain resources that users can request, and the delegated access package managers can define policies with rules for which users can request, who must approve their access, and when access expires.
Select connected organizations whose users can request access. When a user who isn't yet in your directory requests access, and is approved, they're automatically invited into your directory and assigned access. When their access expires, if they have no other access package assignments, their B2B account in your directory can be automatically removed.
Note
If you are ready to try Entitlement management you can get started with ourtutorial to create your first access package.
You can also read thecommon scenarios, or watch videos, including
How to deploy entitlement management in your organization
How to monitor and scale your use of entitlement management
How to delegate in entitlement management
What are access packages and what resources can I manage with them?
Entitlement management introduces the concept of anaccess package. An access package is a bundle of all the resources with the access a user needs to work on a project or perform their task. Access packages can be used to govern access for your employees, and also for users who originate outside your organization.
Here are the types of resources you can manage user's access to, with entitlement management:
Membership of Microsoft Entra security groups
Membership of Microsoft 365 Groups and Teams
Assignment to Microsoft Entra enterprise applications, including SaaS applications and custom-integrated applications that support federation/single sign-on and/or provisioning
Membership of SharePoint Online sites
You can also control access to other resources that rely upon Microsoft Entra security groups or Microsoft 365 Groups. For example:
You can give users licenses for Microsoft 365 by using a Microsoft Entra security group in an access package and configuringgroup-based licensingfor that group.
You can give users access to manage Azure resources by using a Microsoft Entra security group in an access package and creating anAzure role assignmentfor that group.
You can give users access to manage Microsoft Entra roles by using groups assignable to Microsoft Entra roles in an access package andassigning a Microsoft Entra role to that group.
How do I control who gets access?
With an access package, an administrator or delegated access package manager lists the resources (groups, apps, and sites), and the roles the users need for those resources.
Access packages also include one or morepolicies. A policy defines the rules or guardrails for assignment to the access package. Each policy can be used to ensure that only the appropriate users are able to have access assignments, and the access is time-limited and expires if not renewed.

You can have policies for users to request access. In these kinds of policies, an administrator or access package manager defines
Either the already-existing users (typically employees or already-invited guests), or the partner organizations of external users that are eligible to request access
The approval process and the users that can approve or deny access
The duration of a user's access assignment, once approved, before the assignment expires
You can also have policies for users to be assigned access, eitherby an administrator,automatically based on rules, or through lifecycle workflows.
The following diagram shows an example of the different elements in entitlement management. It shows one catalog with two example access packages.
Access package 1includes a single group as a resource. Access is defined with a policy that enables a set of users in the directory to request access.
Access package 2includes a group, an application, and a SharePoint Online site as resources. Access is defined with two different policies. The first policy enables a set of users in the directory to request access. The second policy enables users in an external directory to request access.

When should I use access packages?
Access packages don't replace other mechanisms for access assignment. They're most appropriate in situations such as:
Migrating access policy definitions from a third partyenterprise role managementto Microsoft Entra ID.
Users need time-limited access for a particular task. For example, you might use group-based licensing and a dynamic group to ensure all employees have an Exchange Online mailbox, and then use access packages for situations in which employees need more access rights. For example, rights to read departmental resources from another department.
Access that requires the approval of a person's manager or other designated individuals.
Access that should be assigned automatically to people in a particular part of an organization during their time in that job role, but also available for people elsewhere in the organization, or in a business partner organization, to request.
Departments wish to manage their own access policies for their resources without IT involvement.
Two or more organizations are collaborating on a project, and as a result, multiple users from one organization needs to be brought in via Microsoft Entra B2B to access another organization's resources.
How do I delegate access?
Access packages are defined in containers calledcatalogs. You can have a single catalog for all your access packages, or you can designate individuals to create and own their own catalogs. An administrator can add resources to any catalog, but a nonadministrator can only add to a catalog the resources that they own. A catalog owner can add other users as catalog co-owners, or as access package managers. These scenarios are described further in the articledelegation and roles in entitlement management.
Summary of terminology
To better understand entitlement management and its documentation, you can refer back to the following list of terms.
License requirements
This feature requires Microsoft Entra ID Governance or Microsoft Entra Suite subscriptions, for your organization's users. Some capabilities, within this feature, may operate with a Microsoft Entra ID P2 subscription. For more information, see the articles of each capability for more details. To find the right license for your requirements, seeMicrosoft Entra ID Governance licensing fundamentals.
Next steps
If you're interested in using the Microsoft Entra admin center to manage access to resources, seeTutorial: Manage access to resources - Microsoft Entra.
if you're interested in using Microsoft Graph to manage access to resources, seeTutorial: manage access to resources - Microsoft Graph
Common scenarios
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources