Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure FXT Edge Filer hybrid storage cache?
Article
2024-11-25
3 contributors
In this article
Note
Action Required:Azure FXT Edge Filer will be retired on December 31, 2026. Please remove all Azure FXT Edge Filer resources by December 31, 2026. Visithttps://aka.ms/fxtretirementfaqfor more information.
Azure FXT Edge Filer is a hybrid storage caching appliance that provides fast file access and active archive for high-performance computing (HPC) tasks.
It works with multiple data sources, whether stored in a local data center, remotely, or in the cloud. The Azure FXT Edge Filer can provide a unified namespace for data in diverse storage systems.
Three or more FXT Edge Filer hardware devices work together as a clustered filesystem to provide the cache. For details about purchasing the required hardware, contact your Microsoft representative.
To learn more, read the product information and data sheet onAzure FXT Edge Filer.
Use cases
The Azure FXT Edge Filer enhances productivity best for workflows like these:
Read-heavy file access workflow
NFSv3 or SMB2 protocols
Compute farms of 1000 to 100,000 CPU cores
NAS optimization and scaling
You can use the Azure FXT Edge Filer cache to smooth access to existing NetApp and Dell EMC Isilon NAS systems. You also can add Azure Blob or other cloud storage to provide scalability without having to rework data access processes on the client side.
WAN caching
Azure FXT Edge Filer can be used to support fast file access from power users when the data they need is stored elsewhere. Provide access while keeping backup and other data management systems in a centralized data center.
Active archive in Azure Blob
Expand your data center into cloud storage with Azure FXT Edge Filer as the access point.
Features
Two hardware models are available.
Next steps
Continue learning about the Azure FXT Edge Filer by reading thespecificationsorinstallation tutorial.
Learn how to purchase Azure FXT Edge Filer on theAzure FXT Edge Filer product page.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources