Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Allow trusted services to securely access a network-restricted container registry
Article
2025-03-20
9 contributors
In this article
With Azure Container Registry, you can allow select trusted Azure services to access a registry that's configured with network access rules. When you allow trusted services, a trusted service instance can securely bypass the registry's network rules and perform operations such as pulling or pushing images. This article explains how to enable and use trusted services with a network-restricted Azure container registry.
Use the Azure Cloud Shell or a local installation of the Azure CLI to run the command examples in this article. Use version 2.18 or later to run it locally. Runaz --versionto find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, seeInstall Azure CLI.
az --version
Limitations
Certain registry access scenarios with trusted services require amanaged identity for Azure resources. Except where noted that a user-assigned managed identity is supported, only a system-assigned identity can be used.
Allowing trusted services doesn't apply to a container registry configured with aservice endpoint. The feature only affects registries that are restricted with aprivate endpointor that havepublic IP access rulesapplied.
About trusted services
Azure Container Registry has a layered security model that supports multiple network configurations to restrict access to a registry. These configurations include:
Private endpoint with Azure Private Link. When configured, a registry's private endpoint is accessible only to resources within the virtual network, using private IP addresses.
Registry firewall rules, which allow access to the registry's public endpoint only from specific public IP addresses or address ranges. You can also configure the firewall to block all access to the public endpoint when using private endpoints.
When you deploy a registry in a virtual network or configure it with firewall rules, it denies access to users or services from outside those sources.
Several multitenant Azure services operate from networks that you can't include in these registry network settings. As a result, these services can't perform operations such as pulling or pushing images to the registry. By designating certain service instances as "trusted", a registry owner can allow select Azure resources to securely bypass the registry's network settings to perform registry operations.
Trusted services
Instances of the following services can access a network-restricted container registry if the registry'sallow trusted servicessetting is enabled (the default). More services will be added over time.
Where indicated, access by the trusted service requires additional configuration of a managed identity in a service instance, assignment of anRBAC role, and authentication with the registry. For example steps, seeTrusted services workflow, later in this article.
Note
Currently, enabling theallow trusted servicessetting doesn't apply to App Service.
allow trusted services
Allow trusted services - CLI
By default, the allow trusted services setting is enabled in a new Azure container registry. Disable or enable the setting by running theaz acr updatecommand.
To disable:
az acr update --name myregistry --allow-trusted-services false
az acr update --name myregistry --allow-trusted-services false
To enable the setting in an existing registry or a registry where it's already disabled:
az acr update --name myregistry --allow-trusted-services true
az acr update --name myregistry --allow-trusted-services true
Allow trusted services - portal
By default, the allow trusted services setting is enabled in a new Azure container registry.
To disable or re-enable the setting in the portal:
In the portal, navigate to your container registry.
UnderSettings, selectNetworking.
InAllow public network access, selectSelected networksorDisabled.
Do one of the following steps:To disable access by trusted services, underFirewall exception, uncheckAllow trusted Microsoft services to access this container registry.To allow trusted services, underFirewall exception, checkAllow trusted Microsoft services to access this container registry.
To disable access by trusted services, underFirewall exception, uncheckAllow trusted Microsoft services to access this container registry.
To allow trusted services, underFirewall exception, checkAllow trusted Microsoft services to access this container registry.
SelectSave.
Trusted services workflow
Here's a typical workflow to enable an instance of a trusted service to access a network-restricted container registry. This workflow is needed when you use a service instance's managed identity to bypass the registry's network rules.
Enable a managed identity in an instance of one of thetrusted servicesfor Azure Container Registry.
Assign the identity anAzure roleto your registry. For example, assign the ACRPull role to pull container images.
Configure the setting in the network-restricted registry to allow access by trusted services.
Use the identity's credentials to authenticate with the network-restricted registry.
Pull images from the registry, or perform other operations allowed by the role.
Next steps
To restrict access to a registry using a private endpoint in a virtual network, seeConfigure Azure Private Link for an Azure container registry.
To set up registry firewall rules, seeConfigure public IP network rules.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources