Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
About Azure Local deployment
Article
2025-02-20
6 contributors
In this article
Applies to: Azure Local 2311.2 and later
This article is the first in the series of deployment articles that describe how to deploy Azure Local. This article applies to both single and multi-node deployments. The target audience for this article is IT administrators who are responsible for deploying Azure Local in their organization.
About deployment methods
In this release, you can deploy Azure Local using one of the following methods:
Deploy from Azure portal: Select this option to deploy an Azure Local instance using Azure portal. You can choose from three deployment methods: New configuration, Template spec, and QuickStart template. The deployment flow guides you through the steps to deploy your Azure Local instance.For more information, seeDeploy via Azure portal.
Deploy from Azure portal: Select this option to deploy an Azure Local instance using Azure portal. You can choose from three deployment methods: New configuration, Template spec, and QuickStart template. The deployment flow guides you through the steps to deploy your Azure Local instance.
For more information, seeDeploy via Azure portal.
Deploy from an Azure Resource Manager template: Select this option to deploy an Azure Local instance using an Azure Resource Manager deployment template and the corresponding parameters file. A Resource Manager template is a JSON file containing customized template expressions where you can define dynamic values and logic that determine the Azure resources to deploy.For more information, seeDeploy via Resource Manager template.
Deploy from an Azure Resource Manager template: Select this option to deploy an Azure Local instance using an Azure Resource Manager deployment template and the corresponding parameters file. A Resource Manager template is a JSON file containing customized template expressions where you can define dynamic values and logic that determine the Azure resources to deploy.
For more information, seeDeploy via Resource Manager template.
Deployment sequence
Follow this sequence to deploy Azure Local in your environment:
Note
As part of Azure Local, an Arc resource bridge appliance VM is automatically deployed during setup. The resource bridge is what enables Azure Arc capabilities and hybrid connectivity to Azure.
Validated network topologies
When you deploy Azure Local from Azure portal, the network configuration options vary depending on the number of machines and the type of storage connectivity. Azure portal guides you through the supported options for each configuration.
Before starting the deployment, we recommend you check the following table that shows the supported and available options.
The two storage network options are:
No switch for storage. When you select this option, your Azure Local system uses crossover network cables directly connected to your network interfaces for storage communication. The current supported switchless deployments from the portal are one or two machines.
No switch for storage. When you select this option, your Azure Local system uses crossover network cables directly connected to your network interfaces for storage communication. The current supported switchless deployments from the portal are one or two machines.
Network switch for storage. When you select this option, your Azure Local system uses network switches connected to your network interfaces for storage communication. You can deploy up to 16 machines using this configuration.
Network switch for storage. When you select this option, your Azure Local system uses network switches connected to your network interfaces for storage communication. You can deploy up to 16 machines using this configuration.
You can then select thenetwork reference patterncorresponding to a validated network topology that you intend to deploy.
Next steps
Read theprerequisitesfor Azure Local.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources