Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
FCA and PRA (UK)
Article
2023-04-05
1 contributor
In this article
FCA and PRA overview
ThePrudential Regulation Authority(PRA) is responsible for the prudential supervision of around 1,500 financial institutions, including banks, insurance companies, building societies, credit unions, and certain large investment firms.  As a prudential regulator, the PRA has a general objective to promote the financial soundness of the firms it regulates.
TheFinancial Conduct Authority(FCA) has responsibility for business supervision of all financial services firms, which includes nearly 60,000 businesses.  The FCA has prudential supervision for 49,000 firms and is also responsible for supervising outsourcing arrangements established by firms not supervised by the PRA.
In July 2016, the FCA published the FG 16/5Guidance for firms outsourcing to the cloud and other third-party IT servicesintended to help firms authorized under theFinancial Services and Markets Act 2000(FSMA) oversee all aspects of their outsourcing arrangements. This guidance was subsequently updated to take account of more recent regulatory developments, such as the implementation of the European Banking Authority (EBA)Guidelines on outsourcing arrangements(EBA/GL/2019/02) which was enacted in September 2019. The current version of the FCA guidance was published in September 2019 following this development.
In December 2019, the PRA published a consultation paperCP30/19 Outsourcing and third-party risk management, which takes into account both the EBA Guidelines on outsourcing arrangements and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA)Guidelines on outsourcing to cloud service providers. In March 2021, the PRA published a policy statementPS7/21 Outsourcing and third-party risk managementthat provides feedback to CP30/19 responses and contains the PRA's final Supervisory StatementSS2/21 Outsourcing and third-party risk management.
Note
Supervisory Statement SS2/21sets out the PRA's expectations of how PRA-regulated firms should comply with regulatory requirements and expectations relating to outsourcing and third-party risk management. Firms are expected to comply with the expectations in SS2/21 by 31 March 2022.
For more information, see the PRA'sOutsourcing and third-party risk managementdocumentation.
There are additional requirements and guidelines that financial institutions in the United Kingdom should be aware of when moving to the cloud, including the FSMA,Senior Management Arrangements, Systems, and Controls Sourcebook(SYSC) in the FCA Handbook, the European Banking Authority (EBA) Final Report on Recommendations on Outsourcing to Cloud Service Providers EBA/REC/2017/03, and others.
To assist UK financial services firms regulated by the FCA and PRA with cloud adoption, Microsoft has published several documents described inGuidance documents.
Services in scope
Microsoft online services discussed in our FCA and PRA related guidance documents include:
Azure
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Intune
Guidance documents
You can download Microsoft guidance documents relevant for financial services customers in the UK from the Service Trust PortalUK financial servicessection:
Microsoft Cloud - Checklist for Financial Institutions in the UK
Also available is the following FCA-relevant guidance:
Risk assessment and compliance guide for financial institutions in the Microsoft Cloud
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Financial Conduct Authority(FCA)
FCAHandbook
Senior Management Arrangements, Systems, and Controls Sourcebook(SYSC) in the FCA Handbook
SYSC 8 Outsourcing
FCA FG 16/5Guidance for firms outsourcing to the cloud and other third-party IT services
Prudential Regulation Authority(PRA)
PRAOutsourcing and third-party risk management
European Banking Authority(EBA)
EBAGuidelines on outsourcing arrangements(EBA/GL/2019/02)
Microsoft Cloud for financial services
Microsoft financial services resourceson Service Trust Portal
Azure solutions for the finance industry
Microsoft Cloud financial services compliance program
Risk assessment and compliance guide for financial institutions in the Microsoft Cloud
Additional resources