Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Dapr extension for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) and Arc-enabled Kubernetes
Article
2025-03-10
6 contributors
In this article
Distributed Application Runtime (Dapr)offers APIs that help you write and implement simple, portable, resilient, and secured microservices. Dapr APIs run as a sidecar process in tandem with your applications and abstract away common complexities you may encounter when building distributed applications, such as:
Service discovery
Message broker integration
Encryption
Observability
Secret management
Dapr is incrementally adoptable. You can use any of the API building blocks as needed.Learn the support level Microsoft offers for the Dapr extension.
Capabilities and features
Using the Dapr extension to provision Dapr on your AKS or Arc-enabled Kubernetes clustereliminates the overhead of:
Downloading Dapr tooling
Manually installing and managing the Dapr runtime on your AKS cluster
You can install, deploy, and configure the Dapr extension on your cluster using either the Azure CLI or a Bicep template.
Additionally, the extension offers support for allnative Dapr configuration capabilitiesthrough simple command-line arguments.
Dapr provides the following set of capabilities to help with your microservice development on AKS:
Easy provisioning of Dapr on AKS throughcluster extensions
Portability enabled through HTTP and gRPC APIs which abstract underlying technologies choices
Reliable, secure, and resilient service-to-service calls through HTTP and gRPC APIs
Publish and subscribe messaging made easy with support for CloudEvent filtering and “at-least-once” semantics for message delivery
Pluggable observability and monitoring through Open Telemetry API collector
Independent of language, while also offering language specific software development kits (SDKs)
Integration with Visual Studio Code through the Dapr extension
More APIs for solving distributed application challenges
Issue handling
Microsoft categorizes issues raised against the Dapr extension into two parts:
Extension operations
Dapr runtime (including APIs and components)
The following table breaks down support priority levels for each of these categories.
Clouds/regions
Global Azure cloud is supported with AKS and Arc support on the following regions:
australiaeast
australiasoutheast
brazilsouth
canadacentral
canadaeast
centralindia
centralus
eastasia
eastus
eastus2
eastus2euap
francecentral
francesouth
germanywestcentral
japaneast
japanwest
koreacentral
koreasouth
northcentralus
northeurope
norwayeast
southafricanorth
southcentralus
southeastasia
southindia
swedencentral
switzerlandnorth
uaenorth
uksouth
ukwest
westcentralus
westeurope
westus
westus2
westus3
Frequently asked questions
How do Dapr and Service meshes compare?
While Dapr and service meshes do offer some overlapping capabilities, a service mesh is focused on networking concerns, whereas Dapr is focused on providing building blocks that make building applications as microservices easier. Dapr is developer-centric, while service meshes are infrastructure-centric.
Some common capabilities that Dapr shares with service meshes include:
Secure service-to-service communication with mTLS encryption
Service-to-service metric collection
Service-to-service distributed tracing
Resiliency through retries
Dapr provides other application-level building blocks for state management, pub/sub messaging, actors, and more. However, Dapr doesn't provide capabilities for traffic behavior, such as routing or traffic splitting. If your solution would benefit from the traffic splitting a service mesh provides, consider usingOpen Service Mesh.
For more information on Dapr and service meshes, and how they can be used together, visit theDapr documentation.
How does the Dapr secrets API compare to the Secrets Store CSI driver?
Both the Dapr secrets API and the managed Secrets Store CSI driver allow for the integration of secrets held in an external store, abstracting secret store technology from application code.
The Secrets Store CSI driver mounts secrets held in Azure Key Vault as a CSI volume for consumption by an application.
Dapr exposes secrets via a RESTful API that can be:
Called by application code
Configured with assorted secret stores
The following table lists the capabilities of each offering:
For more information on the secret management in Dapr, see thesecrets management overview.
For more information on the Secrets Store CSI driver and Azure Key Vault provider, see theSecrets Store CSI driver overview.
How does the managed Dapr cluster extension compare to the open source Dapr offering?
The managed Dapr cluster extension is the easiest method to provision Dapr on an AKS cluster. With the extension, you're able to offload management of the Dapr runtime version by opting into automatic upgrades. Additionally, the extension installs Dapr with smart defaults (for example, provisioning the Dapr control plane in high availability mode).
When installing Dapr open source via helm or the Dapr CLI, developers and cluster maintainers are also responsible for runtime versions and configuration options.
Lastly, the Dapr extension is an extension of AKS, therefore you can expect the same support policy as other AKS features.
Learn more about migrating from Dapr open source to the Dapr extension for AKS.

How can I authenticate Dapr components with Microsoft Entra ID using managed identities?
Learn howDapr components authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID.
Learn aboutusing managed identities with AKS.
How can I switch to using the Dapr extension if I’ve already installed Dapr via a method, such as Helm?
Recommended guidance is to completely uninstall Dapr from the AKS cluster and reinstall it via the cluster extension.You can also check for the existing Dapr installation and migrate it to AKS.
If you install Dapr through the AKS extension, our recommendation is to continue using the extension for future management of Dapr instead of the Dapr CLI. Combining the two tools can cause conflicts and result in undesired behavior.
Next Steps
Walk through the Dapr extension quickstart to demo how it works
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources