Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Reprotect failed over Azure virtual machines to the primary region
Article
2025-03-17
17 contributors
In this article
When youfail overAzure virtual machines from one region to another usingAzure Site Recovery, the virtual machines boot up in the secondary region, in anunprotectedstate. If you want to fail back the virtual machines to the primary region, do the following tasks:
Reprotect the virtual machines in the secondary region, so that they start to replicate to the primary region.
After reprotection completes and the virtual machines are replicating, you can fail over from the secondary to primary region.
Prerequisites
The virtual machine failover from the primary to secondary region must be committed. The virtual machine status must beFailover committedbefore you start.
The primary target site should be available, and you should be able to access or create resources in that region.
Reprotect a virtual machine
InVault>Replicated items, right-click the failed over virtual machine, and selectRe-Protect. The reprotection direction should show from secondary to primary.
InVault>Replicated items, right-click the failed over virtual machine, and selectRe-Protect. The reprotection direction should show from secondary to primary.

Review the resource group, network, storage, and availability sets. Then selectOK. If there are any resources marked as new, they're created as part of the reprotection process.
Review the resource group, network, storage, and availability sets. Then selectOK. If there are any resources marked as new, they're created as part of the reprotection process.
The reprotection job seeds the target site with the latest data. After the job finishes, delta replication takes place. Then, you can fail over back to the primary site. You can select the storage account or the network you want to use during reprotect, using the customize option.
The reprotection job seeds the target site with the latest data. After the job finishes, delta replication takes place. Then, you can fail over back to the primary site. You can select the storage account or the network you want to use during reprotect, using the customize option.

Customize reprotect settings
You can customize the following properties of the target virtual machine during reprotection.

What happens during reprotection?
By default, the following occurs:
A cache storage account is created in the region where the failed over virtual machine is running.
If the target storage account (the original storage account in the primary region) doesn't exist, a new one is created. The assigned storage account name is the name of the storage account used by the secondary virtual machine, suffixed withasr.
asr
If your virtual machine uses managed disks, replica managed disks are created in the primary region to store the data replicated from the secondary virtual machine's disks.
Temporary replicas of the source disks (disks attached to the virtual machines in secondary region) are created with the namems-asr-<GUID>, that are used to transfer / read data. The temp disks let us utilize the complete bandwidth of the disk instead of only 16% bandwidth of the original disks (that are connected to the virtual machine). The temp disks are deleted once the reprotection completes.
ms-asr-<GUID>
If the target availability set doesn't exist, a new one is created as part of the reprotect job if necessary. If you've customized the reprotection settings, then the selected set is used.
Note
After re-protecting virtual machines in the secondary region, Azure Site Recovery locks the source machine as Read-only. It applies the lock to prevent deletion during reprotection and replication from the failed-over VM back to the source machine.
The lock remains until the failback to the source region completes. This Read-only lock name follows this naming convention:SiteRecovery-<Recovery Services vault's resource ID>-<Vault's name>-<Vault's location>.
SiteRecovery-<Recovery Services vault's resource ID>-<Vault's name>-<Vault's location>
When you trigger a reprotect job, and the target virtual machine exists, the following occurs:
The target side virtual machine is turned off if it's running.
If the virtual machine is using managed disks, a copy of the original disk is created with an-ASRReplicasuffix. The original disks are deleted. The-ASRReplicacopies are used for replication.
-ASRReplica
-ASRReplica
If the virtual machine is using unmanaged disks, the target virtual machine's data disks are detached and used for replication. A copy of the OS disk is created and attached on the virtual machine. The original OS disk is detached and used for replication.
Only changes between the source disk and the target disk are synchronized. The differentials are computed by comparing both the disks and then transferred. Check below to find the estimated time to complete the reprotection.
After the synchronization completes, the delta replication begins, and a recovery point is created in line with the replication policy.
When you trigger a reprotect job, and the target virtual machine and disks don't exist, the following occurs:
If the virtual machine is using managed disks, replica disks are created with-ASRReplicasuffix. The-ASRReplicacopies are used for replication.
-ASRReplica
-ASRReplica
If the virtual machine is using unmanaged disks, replica disks are created in the target storage account.
The entire disks are copied from the failed over region to the new target region.
After the synchronization completes, the delta replication begins, and a recovery point is created in line with the replication policy.
Note
Thems-asrdisks are temporary disks that are deleted after thereprotectaction is completed.  You will be charged a minimal cost based on the Azure managed disk price for the time that these disks are active.
ms-asr
In most cases, Azure Site Recovery doesn't replicate the complete data to the source region. The amount of data replicated depends on the following conditions:
Azure Site Recovery doesn't support reprotection if the source virtual machine's data is deleted, corrupted, or inaccessible for some reason. For example, a resource group change or deletion. Alternatively, you can disable the previous disaster recovery protection and enable a new protection from the current region.
If the source virtual machine data is accessible, then differentials are computed by comparing both the disks and only the differences are transferred.
In this case, thereprotection  timeis greater than or equal to thechecksum calculation time + checksum differentials transfer time + time taken to process the recovery points from Azure Site Recovery agent + auto scale time.
checksum calculation time + checksum differentials transfer time + time taken to process the recovery points from Azure Site Recovery agent + auto scale time
Factors governing reprotection time in scenario 2
The following factors affect the reprotection time when the source virtual machine is accessible in scenario 2:
Checksum calculation time- The time taken to complete the enable replication process from the primary to the disaster recovery location is used as a benchmark for the checksum differential calculation. Navigate toRecovery Services vaults>Monitoring>Site Recovery jobsto see the time taken to complete the enable replication process. This will be the minimum time required to complete the checksum calculation.
Checksum calculation time- The time taken to complete the enable replication process from the primary to the disaster recovery location is used as a benchmark for the checksum differential calculation. Navigate toRecovery Services vaults>Monitoring>Site Recovery jobsto see the time taken to complete the enable replication process. This will be the minimum time required to complete the checksum calculation.
Checksum differential data transferhappens at approximately 23% of disk throughput.
Checksum differential data transferhappens at approximately 23% of disk throughput.
The time taken to process the recovery points sent from Azure Site Recovery agent– Azure Site Recovery agent continues to send recovery points during the checksum calculation and transfer phase, as well. However, Azure Site Recovery processes them only once the checksum diff transfer is complete.
The time taken to process recovery points will be around one-fifth (1/5th) of the time taken for checksum differentials calculation and checksum differentials transfer time (time for checksum diff calculation + time for checksum diff transfer). For example, if the time taken for checksum differential calculation and checksum differential transfer is 15 hours, the time taken to process the recovery points from the agent will be three hours.
The time taken to process the recovery points sent from Azure Site Recovery agent– Azure Site Recovery agent continues to send recovery points during the checksum calculation and transfer phase, as well. However, Azure Site Recovery processes them only once the checksum diff transfer is complete.
The time taken to process recovery points will be around one-fifth (1/5th) of the time taken for checksum differentials calculation and checksum differentials transfer time (time for checksum diff calculation + time for checksum diff transfer). For example, if the time taken for checksum differential calculation and checksum differential transfer is 15 hours, the time taken to process the recovery points from the agent will be three hours.
Theauto scale timeis approximately 20-30 minutes.
Theauto scale timeis approximately 20-30 minutes.
Example scenario:
Let's take the example from the following screenshot, where Enable Replication from the primary to the disaster recovery location took an hour and 12 minutes. The Checksum calculation time would be at least an hour and 12 minutes. Assuming that the amount of data change post failover is 45 GB, and the disk has a throughput of 60 Mbps, the differential transfer will occur at 14 Mbps, and the time taken for differential transfer will be 45 GB / 14 Mbps, that is approximately 55 minutes. The time taken to process the recovery points is approximately one-fifth of the total time taken for the checksum calculation (72 minutes) and time taken for data transfer (55minutes), which is approximately 25 minutes.   Additionally, it takes 20-30 minutes for auto-scaling. So, the total time for reprotection should be at least three hours.

The above is a simple illustration of how to estimate the reprotection time. When customer failover to target region and reprotect, the source virtual machine and associated resources arenot deleted. When customerfailbackto primary region and reprotect, the VM (in the target / disaster recovery region) and associated resources are then deleted.
Next steps
After the virtual machine is protected, you can initiate a failover. The failover shuts down the virtual machine in the secondary region and creates and boots the virtual machine in the primary region, with brief downtime during this process. We recommend you choose an appropriate time for this process and that you run a test failover before initiating a full failover to the primary site.
Learn moreabout Azure Site Recovery failover.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources