Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
VM size: Performance best practices for SQL Server on Azure VMs
Article
2025-04-02
15 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL Server on Azure VM
This article provides VM size guidance a series of best practices and guidelines to optimize performance for your SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs).
There's typically a trade-off between optimizing for costs and optimizing for performance. This performance best practices series is focused on getting thebestperformance for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. If your workload is less demanding, you might not require every recommended optimization. Consider your performance needs, costs, and workload patterns as you evaluate these recommendations.
For comprehensive details, see the other articles in this series:Checklist,Storage,Security,HADR configuration,Collect baseline.
Checklist
Review the following checklist for a brief overview of the VM size best practices that the rest of the article covers in greater detail:
Identify workload performance characteristics to determine the appropriate VM size for your business.
If you're migrating to Azure, use tools likeData Migration AssistantandSKU recommendationto find the right VM size for your existing SQL Server workload, and then migrate withAzure Data Studio.
Use Azure Marketplace images to deploy your SQL Server VMs as the SQL Server settings and storage options are configured for optimal performance.
Use VM sizes with 4 or more vCPUs.
Use memory optimized virtual machine sizes for the best performance of SQL Server workloads.TheEdsv5-series, and theMsv3 and Mdsv3-seriesoffer an optimal memory-to-vCore ratio recommended for OLTP workloads.TheMbdsv3-series VMsoffer the best performance for SQL Server workloads on Azure VMs. Consider this series first for mission critical OLTP and data warehouse SQL Server workloads.TheEbdsv5-seriesprovides a high I/O throughput-to-vCore ratio, along with a memory-to-vCore ratio of 8:1. This series offers the best price-performance for SQL Server workloads on Azure VMs. Consider these VMs first for most SQL Server workloads.TheM-series familyoffers VMs with the highest memory allocation in Azure.TheMbsv3 and Mbdsv3 seriesVMs provide a high memory allocation and the highest I/O throughput-to-vCore ratio amongst the M-series family, along with a consistent memory-to-vCore ratio of at least 8:1.
TheEdsv5-series, and theMsv3 and Mdsv3-seriesoffer an optimal memory-to-vCore ratio recommended for OLTP workloads.
TheMbdsv3-series VMsoffer the best performance for SQL Server workloads on Azure VMs. Consider this series first for mission critical OLTP and data warehouse SQL Server workloads.
TheEbdsv5-seriesprovides a high I/O throughput-to-vCore ratio, along with a memory-to-vCore ratio of 8:1. This series offers the best price-performance for SQL Server workloads on Azure VMs. Consider these VMs first for most SQL Server workloads.
TheM-series familyoffers VMs with the highest memory allocation in Azure.
TheMbsv3 and Mbdsv3 seriesVMs provide a high memory allocation and the highest I/O throughput-to-vCore ratio amongst the M-series family, along with a consistent memory-to-vCore ratio of at least 8:1.
Start development environments with the lower-tier D-Series, B-Series, or Av2-series and grow your environment over time.
CheckVM supportabilityto avoid unsupported configurations.
To compare the VM size checklist with the others, see the comprehensivePerformance best practices checklist.
Overview
When you're creating a SQL Server on Azure VM, carefully consider the type of workload necessary. If you're migrating an existing environment,collect a performance baselineto determine your SQL Server on Azure VM requirements. Use the vCPU and memory configuration from your source machine as a baseline for migrating a current on-premises SQL Server database to SQL Server on Azure VMs. If you have Software Assurance, take advantage of theAzure Hybrid Benefitto bring your licenses to Azure and save on SQL Server licensing costs.
If this is a new VM, then create your new SQL Server VM based on your application requirements. If you're creating a new SQL Server VM for a new application built for the cloud, you can easily scale your SQL Server VM as your data and usage requirements evolve. Start development environments with the lower-tier D-Series, B-Series, or Av2-series and grow your environment over time.
Consider the following VM series based on your SQL Server workloads:
Highest memory allocation for mission critical workloads: TheMbsv3 and Mbdsv3-series VMsoffers the highest memory allocation in Azure, with the best storage performance.
High I/O throughput-to-vCore ratio: TheMbsv3 and Mbdsv3-series VMsoffer the highest throughput-to-vCore ratio of any VM series in any cloud. TheEbdsv5-series VMsoffer the second highest throughput-to-vCore ratio in Azure. If you don't know the I/O requirements for your SQL Server workload, theEbdsv5-series VMsis the one most likely to meet your needs. See thestoragearticle to learn more.
Parallel processing for larger machines: TheMsv3 and Mdsv3 series VMsoffer parallel processing, making them good options for larger data warehouse environments.
SQL Server data warehouse and mission critical environments will often need to scale beyond the 8:1 memory-to-vCore ratio. For medium environments, you may want to choose a 16:1 memory-to-vCore ratio, and a 32:1 memory-to-vCore ratio for larger data warehouse environments.
Use the SQL Server VM marketplace images with the storage configuration in the portal. This makes it easier to properly create the storage pools necessary to get the size, IOPS, and throughput necessary for your workloads. It's important to choose SQL Server VMs that support premium storage performance. See thestoragearticle to learn more.
Caution
SQL Server isn't supported on VM sizes that deploy with an uninitialized ephemeral disk. To learn more, reviewVM deployment and SQL Server failures.
Supportability
Consider the following limitations when installing SQL Server to Azure VMs:
Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS)are not supported with SQL Server on Azure VMs. If you decide to use VMSS with your SQL Server on Azure VM against this recommendation, and enable theAutomatic guest patching feature, which replaces the OS disk when a new image version is released, you will likely disrupt SQL Server, leading to potential corruption, data loss, and availability issues.
SQL Server isn't supported on systems with more than 64 vCores per NUMA node.Disable SMTto use SQL Server on Azure VMs that exceed 64 vCores per NUMA node.
SQL Server currently supports disks with a standard nativesector sizes of 512 bytes and 4 KB. Installing SQL Server to disks with 8-KB sector sizes isn't supported and can lead toinstallation failures, as well asperformance degradation from misaligned I/O.
SQL Server on Azure VM images fail to deploy with VM sizes that have uninitialized ephemeral disks. To learn more, reviewSome SQL Server on Azure VM images fail to deploy.
Filtering by VM size
When deploying an Azure VM, use thenaming conventionto determine the VM size name to filter by in the portal. The VM size name is the combination of the family, subfamily, number of CPUs, and any additive features.
For example, when filtering anEbdsv5 seriesVM, enter the VM size name such asE64bdsor the version such asv5, which is referred to asGenerationin the portal. The following screenshot demonstrates filtering the VM size list by thev5version in the Azure portal:
E64bds
v5
v5

Consider the following:
Additional filters can be applied by using 'Add filter' to narrow your VM size list based on factors like the size of the machine, type (family) such as memory-optimized or general purpose, and disk controller type.
If you don't see a result for the VM you're searching for, it's likely due to a filter applied to the VM size list. Clear the filter and try again.
The disk controller filter helps you identify if the storage is iSCSI or NVMe.
Memory optimized M-series VMs
TheM-seriesoffers vCore counts and memory for some of the largest SQL Server workloads.
The following lists the capabilities of the M-series VMs:
Supportpremium storage,premium storage caching,ultra disks,write acceleration, and accelerated networking.
Are suitable for SQL Server workloads that require high computing capabilities with large memory footprints and less emphasis on storage performance.
Mbsv3 and Mbdsv3 series
The Mbsv3 and Mbdsv3 series are memory optimized VMs designed for large in-memory databases and workloads with high memory-to-CPU ratio needs. The VMs in this series are built on the 4th generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable and offer a range of memory sizes and vCPU counts to meet the needs of your SQL Server workloads. The Mbsv3 and Mbdsv3 series VMs are recommended for mission critical and data warehouse workloads.
The Mbsv3 and Mbdsv3 series VMs support large in-memory databases and workloads with a high memory-to-CPU ratio perfect for relational database servers, data warehousing, heavy reporting, large caches, and in-memory analytics.
The following are characteristics of VMs in this series:
Mbsv3-seriesoffer up to 176 vCores, and 1,536 GiB of memory, with a consistent 8:1 memory-to-vCore ratio, 650,000 IOPS, and 6,000 MBps of storage throughput.
Mbdsv3-seriesoffer up to 176 vCores and 4 TiB of memory, 650,000 IOPS, and 10,000 MBps of storage throughput. This VM series offers over a 50% improvement in IOPS and throughput to the top-performing Ebdsv5 series - making the Mbdsv3 one of the highest-performing VM options available in any cloud. The Mbdsv3 VM series shares similar performance characteristics with the Mbsv3 VM series but includes strong local and ephemeral storage, making it perfect for tempdb performance optimization, reporting, mission critical OLAP, and data warehousing workloads.
Msv3 and Mdsv3 series
The Msv3 and Mdsv3 virtual machines are designed with computing power and memory capabilities atmedium,highandvery highmemory levels.  These VMs provide improved performance, scalability, and resilience to failures compared to the previous generation Mv2 VMs.
The following lists the VMs in this series:
Msv3 and Mdsv3 Medium Memory VMs: powered by 4th generation Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors, and offers VM sizes of up to 4 TiB of memory, 416 vCPUs,  130,000 IOPS, and 4,000 MBps of remote storage throughput with the NVMe interface.
Msv3 and Mdsv3 High Memory VMs: are designed for high memory workloads with memory ranging from 6 TiB to 16 TiB, up to 832 vCPUs, up to 260,000 IOPS and 8,000-MBps throughput to remote storage with the NVMe interface.
Mdsv3 Very High Memory Series: powered by 4th generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8490H (Sapphire Rapids) processors, and have the largest memory footprint of any of the M-series based virtual machines offering up to 32 TiB of memory, 1,792 vCPUs, up to 200,000 IOPS and 8,000 MBps of remote storage throughput.
Caution
Disable SMTto use SQL Server on Azure VMs that exceed 64 vCores per NUMA node.
Memory-optimized E-series VMs
TheE-seriesVMs are designed for memory-intensive workloads, such as large databases, big data analytics, and enterprise applications that require significant amounts of RAM to maintain high performance.
Ebdsv5-series
TheEbdsv5-seriesis a memory-optimized series of VMs that offer the highest remote storage throughput available in Azure. These VMs have a memory-to-vCore ratio of 8:1 which, together with the high I/O throughput, makes them ideal for most SQL Server workloads. The Ebdsv5-series VMs offer the best price-performance for SQL Server workloads running on Azure virtual machines and we strongly recommend them for most of your production SQL Server workloads.
Note
The largerEbdsv5-seriessizes (48 vCPUs and larger) offer support for NVMe enabled storage access. In order to take advantage of this high I/O performance, you must deploy your virtual machineusing NVMe.
Edsv5-series
TheEdsv5-seriesis designed for memory-intensive applications and is ideal for SQL Server workloads that don't require as high I/O throughput as the Ebdsv5 series offers. These VMs have a large local storage SSD capacity, up to 672 GiB of RAM, and very high local and remote storage throughput. There's a nearly consistent 8 GiB of memory per vCore across most of these virtual machines, which is ideal for most SQL Server workloads.
The largest virtual machine in this group is theStandard_E104ids_v5that offers 104 vCores and 672 GiBs of memory. This virtual machine is notable because it'sisolatedwhich means it's guaranteed to be the only virtual machine running on the host, and therefore is isolated from other customer workloads. This has a memory-to-vCore ratio that is lower than what is recommended for SQL Server, so it should only be used if isolation is required.
The Edsv5-series virtual machines supportpremium storage, andpremium storage caching.
ECadsv5-series
TheECadsv5-seriesvirtual machine sizes arememory-optimized Azure confidential VMswith a temporary disk. Reviewconfidential VMsfor information about the security benefits of Azure confidential VMs.
As the security features of Azure confidential VMs might introduce performance overheads, test your workload and select a VM size that meets your performance requirements.
General Purpose
TheGeneral Purpose virtual machine sizesare designed to provide balanced memory-to-vCore ratios for smaller entry level workloads such as development and test, web servers, and smaller database servers.
Because of the smaller memory-to-vCore ratios with the General Purpose virtual machines, it's important to carefully monitor memory-based performance counters to ensure SQL Server is able to get the buffer cache memory it needs. Seememory performance baselinefor more information.
Since the starting recommendation for production workloads is a memory-to-vCore ratio of 8, the minimum recommended configuration for a General Purpose VM running SQL Server is 4 vCPU and 32 GiB of memory.
Ddsv5 series
TheDdsv5-seriesoffers a fair combination of vCPU, memory, and temporary disk but with smaller memory-to-vCore support.
The Ddsv5 VMs include lower latency and higher-speed local storage.
These machines are ideal for side-by-side SQL and app deployments that require fast access to temp storage and departmental relational databases. There's a standard memory-to-vCore ratio of 4 across all of the virtual machines in this series.
For this reason, it's recommended to use the D8ds_v5 as the starter virtual machine in this series, which has 8 vCores and 32 GiBs of memory. The largest machine is the D96ds_v5, which has 96 vCores and 256 GiBs of memory.
TheDdsv5-seriesvirtual machines supportpremium storageandpremium storage caching.
Note
TheDdsv5-seriesdoes not have the memory-to-vCore ratio of 8 that is recommended for SQL Server workloads. As such, consider using these virtual machines for small applications and development workloads only.
DCadsv5-series
TheDCadsv5-seriesvirtual machine sizes aregeneral purpose Azure confidential VMswith temporary disk. Reviewconfidential VMsfor information about the security benefits of Azure confidential VMs.
As the security features of Azure confidential VMs can introduce performance overheads, test your workload and select a VM size that meets your performance requirements.
B-series
Theburstable B-seriesvirtual machine sizes are ideal for workloads that don't need consistent performance such as proof of concept and very small application and development servers.
Most of theburstable B-seriesvirtual machine sizes have a memory-to-vCore ratio of 4. The largest burstable B-series is theStandard_B20mswith 20 vCores and 80 GiB of memory.
This series is unique as the apps have the ability toburstduring business hours with burstable credits varying based on machine size.
When the credits are exhausted, the VM returns to the baseline machine performance.
The benefit of the B-series is the compute savings you could achieve compared to the other VM sizes in other series especially if you need the processing power sparingly throughout the day.
This series supportspremium storage, butdoes not supportpremium storage caching.
Note
Theburstable B-seriesdoes not have the memory-to-vCore ratio of 8 that is recommended for SQL Server workloads. As such, consider using these virtual machines for smaller applications, web servers, and development workloads only.
Av2-series
TheAv2-seriesVMs are best suited for entry-level workloads like development and test, low traffic web servers, small to medium app databases, and proof-of-concepts.
Only theStandard_A2m_v2(2 vCores and 16GiBs of memory),Standard_A4m_v2(4 vCores and 32GiBs of memory), and theStandard_A8m_v2(8 vCores and 64GiBs of memory) have a good memory-to-vCore ratio of 8 for these top three virtual machines.
These virtual machines are both good options for smaller development and test SQL Server machines.
The 8 vCoreStandard_A8m_v2can also be a good option for small application and web servers.
Note
The Av2 series does not support premium storage and as such, is not recommended for production SQL Server workloads even with the virtual machines that have a memory-to-vCore ratio of 8.
Storage optimized
Thestorage optimized VM sizesare for specific use cases. These virtual machines are specifically designed with optimized disk throughput and IO.
Lsv2-series
TheLsv2-seriesfeatures high throughput, low latency, and local NVMe storage. The Lsv2-series VMs are optimized to use the local disk on the node attached directly to the VM rather than using durable data disks.
These virtual machines are strong options for big data, data warehouse, reporting, and ETL workloads. The high throughput and IOPS of the local NVMe storage is a good use case for processing files that will be loaded into your database and other scenarios where the data can be recreated from the source system or other repositories such as Azure Blob storage or Azure Data Lake.Lsv2-seriesVMs can also burst their disk performance for up to 30 minutes at a time.
These virtual machines size from 8 to 80 vCPU with 8 GiB of memory per vCPU and for every 8 vCPUs there's 1.92 TiB of NVMe SSD. This means for the largest VM of this series, theL80s_v2, there's 80 vCPU and 640 BiB of memory with 10x1.92 TiB of NVMe storage. There's a consistent memory-to-vCore ratio of 8 across all of these virtual machines.
The NVMe storage is ephemeral meaning that data will be lost on these disks if you deallocate your virtual machine, or if it's moved to a different host for service healing.
The Lsv2 and Ls series supportpremium storage, but not premium storage caching. The creation of a local cache to increase IOPs isn't supported.
Warning
Storing your data files on the ephemeral NVMe storage could result in data loss when the VM is deallocated.
Constrained vCores
High performing SQL Server workloads often need larger amounts of memory, IOPS, and throughput without the higher vCore counts.
Most OLTP workloads are application databases driven by large numbers of smaller transactions. With OLTP workloads, only a small amount of the data is read or modified, but the volumes of transactions driven by user counts are much higher. It's important to have the SQL Server memory available to cache plans, store recently accessed data for performance, and ensure physical reads can be read into memory quickly.
These OLTP environments need higher amounts of memory, fast storage, and the I/O bandwidth necessary to perform optimally.
In order to maintain this level of performance without the higher SQL Server licensing costs, Azure offers VM sizes withconstrained vCPU counts.
This helps control licensing costs by reducing the available vCores while maintaining the same memory, storage, and I/O bandwidth of the parent virtual machine.
The vCPU count can be constrained to one-half to one-quarter of the original VM size. Reducing the vCores available to the virtual machine achieves higher memory-to-vCore ratios, but the compute cost will remain the same.
These new VM sizes have a suffix that specifies the number of active vCPUs to make them easier to identify.
For example, theM64-32msrequires licensing only 32 SQL Server vCores with the memory, I/O, and throughput of theM64msand theM64-16msrequires licensing only 16 vCores. Though while theM64-16mshas a quarter of the SQL Server licensing cost of the M64ms, the compute cost of the virtual machines is the same.
Note
Medium to large data warehouse workloads may still benefit fromconstrained vCore VMs, but data warehouse workloads are commonly characterized by fewer users and processes addressing larger amounts of data through query plans that run in parallel.
The compute cost, which includes operating system licensing, will remain the same as the parent virtual machine.
Related content
To learn more, see the other articles in this best practices series:
Quick checklist
Storage
Security
HADR settings
Collect baseline
For security best practices, seeSecurity considerations for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.
Review other SQL Server Virtual Machine articles atSQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines Overview. If you have questions about SQL Server virtual machines, see theFrequently Asked Questions.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources