Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandra?
Article
2024-08-14
2 contributors
In this article
Azure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandra is a fully managed service for pure open-source Apache Cassandra clusters. The service also allows configurations to be overridden, depending on the specific needs of each workload, allowing maximum flexibility and control where needed.

Key benefits
Hybrid deployments
You can use this service to easily place managed instances of Apache Cassandra datacenters, which are deployed automatically as virtual machine scale sets, into a new or existing Azure Virtual Network. These data centers can be added to your existing Apache Cassandra ring running on-premises viaAzure ExpressRoutein Azure, or another cloud environment. This is achieved throughhybrid configuration.
Simplified deployment:After the hybrid connectivity is established, deployment of new data centers in Azure is easy throughsimple commands.
Metrics:each datacenter node provisioned by the service emits metrics usingMetric Collector for Apache Cassandra. The metrics can bevisualized in Prometheus or Grafana. The service is also integrated withAzure Monitor for metrics and diagnostic logging.
Note
The service currently supports Cassandra versions 3.11 and 4.0. Both versions are GA. See ourAzure CLI Quickstart(step 5) for specifying Cassandra version during cluster deployment.
Simplified scaling
In the managed instance, scaling up and scaling down nodes in a datacenter is fully managed. You select the number of nodes you need, and with asimple command, the scaling orchestrator takes care of establishing their operation within the Cassandra ring.
Managed and cost-effective
The service providesmanagement operationsfor the following common Apache Cassandra tasks:
Provision a cluster
Provision a datacenter
Scale a datacenter
Delete a datacenter
Change configuration of a datacenter
Nodetool repair
Node health monitoring
Virtual Machine health monitoring
Operating system patching
Apache Cassandra patching
Vulnerability and virus scanning
Certificate rotation
Snapshot backups
The pricing model is flexible, on-demand, instance-based, and has no licensing fees. This pricing model allows you to adjust to your specific workload needs. You choose how many cores, which VM SKU, what memory size, and the number of P30 disks per node.
Next steps
Get started with one of our quickstarts:
Create a managed instance cluster from the Azure portal
Deploy a Managed Apache Spark Cluster with Azure Databricks
Manage Azure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandra resources using Azure CLI
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources