Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cost Optimization design principles
Article
2023-11-15
4 contributors
In this article
Architecture design is always driven by business goals and mustfactor in return on investment (ROI) and financial constraints. Typical questions to consider include:
Do the allocated budgets enable you to meet your goals?
What's the spending pattern for the application and its operations? What are priority areas?
How will you maximize the investment in resources, by better utilization or by reduction?
A cost-optimized workload isn't necessarily a low-cost workload. There are significant tradeoffs. Tactical approaches are reactive and can reduce costs only in the short term. To achieve long-term financial responsibility, you need tocreate a strategy with prioritization, continuous monitoring, and repeatable processesthat focuses on optimization.
The design principles are intended to provide optimization strategies that you need to consider when you design and implement your workload architecture. Start with the recommended approaches andjustify the benefits for a set of business requirements. After you set your strategy, drive actions by using theCost Optimization checklistas your next step.
As you prioritize business requirements to align with technology needs, you can adjust costs. However, you should expect a series oftradeoffs in areas in which you want to optimize cost, such as security, scalability, resilience, and operability. If the cost of addressing the challenges in those areas is high and these principles aren't applied properly, you might make risky choices in favor of a cheaper solution, ultimately affecting your organization's business goals and reputation.
Develop cost-management discipline
Cost optimization is conducted at various levels of the organization. It's important to understand how your workload is aligned with organizational goals and FinOps practices. A view into the business units, resource organization, and centralized audit policies allows you to adopt a standardized financial system.
Design with a cost-efficiency mindset
Every architectural decision has direct and indirect financial implications.Understand the costs associated with build versus buy options, technology choices, the billing model and licensing, training, operations, and so on.
Given a set of requirements, optimize and make tradeoff decisions, in relation to costs, that still effectively address the cross-cutting concerns of the workload.
Design for usage optimization
Services and offerings provide various capabilities and pricing tiers.After you purchase a set of features, avoid underutilizing them. Find ways to maximize your investment in the tier. Likewise, continuously evaluate billing models to find those that better align to your usage, based on current production workloads.
Design for rate optimization
Take advantage of opportunities to optimize the utility and costs of your existing resources and operations. If you don't, you unnecessarily spend money without any added ROI.
Monitor and optimize over time
What was important yesterday might not be important today. As you learn through evaluation of production workloads,expect changes in architecture, business requirements, processes, and even team structure. Your software development lifecycle (SDLC) practices might need to evolve. External factors might also change, like the cloud platform, its resources, and your agreements.
You should carefully assess the impact of all changes on cost. Monitor changes and the ROI trend on a regular cadence, and evaluate whether you need to adjust functional and nonfunctional requirements.
Next steps
Cost Optimization checklist
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources