Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
HTTP/2 support in Azure Front Door
Article
2024-11-19
7 contributors
In this article
Currently, HTTP/2 support is enabled for all Azure Front Door configurations, requiring no extra actions.
HTTP/2 is a significant update to HTTP/1.1, offering faster web performance by reducing response times. It retains the familiar HTTP methods, status codes, and semantics of HTTP/1.1 to enhance user experience. Although HTTP/2 works with both HTTP and HTTPS, many web browsers only support HTTP/2 over Transport Layer Security (TLS).
Note
HTTP/2 protocol support is available only for requests from clients to Front Door. Communication from Front Door to back ends in the back-end pool uses HTTP/1.1.
Benefits of HTTP/2
HTTP/2 offers several benefits:
Multiplexing and concurrency: Unlike HTTP/1.1, which requires multiple TCP connections for multiple resource requests, HTTP/2 allows multiple resources to be requested over a single TCP connection, reducing performance costs.
Multiplexing and concurrency: Unlike HTTP/1.1, which requires multiple TCP connections for multiple resource requests, HTTP/2 allows multiple resources to be requested over a single TCP connection, reducing performance costs.
Header compression: Compressing HTTP headers for served resources reduces the amount of data sent over the network.
Header compression: Compressing HTTP headers for served resources reduces the amount of data sent over the network.
Stream dependencies: Clients can indicate resource priorities to the server, optimizing resource loading.
Stream dependencies: Clients can indicate resource priorities to the server, optimizing resource loading.
Browser Support for HTTP/2
All major browsers support HTTP/2 in their current versions. Browsers that don't support HTTP/2 automatically revert to HTTP/1.1.
Next Steps
To learn more about HTTP/2, visit the following resources:
HTTP/2 specification homepage
Official HTTP/2 FAQ
Learn how tocreate a Front Door
Learnhow Front Door works
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources