Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Singapore MTCS
Article
2023-04-05
1 contributor
In this article
Singapore MTCS overview
The Multi-Tier Cloud Security (MTCS) Standard for Singapore was prepared under the direction of the Information Technology Standards Committee (ITSC) of theInfocomm Media Development Authority(IMDA). The ITSC promotes national programs to standardize IT and communications, and facilitates Singapore's participation in international standardization activities. In conjunction with the Singapore Standard SS 584Specification for multi-tiered cloud computing security, theMTCS Certification Schemewas developed to encourage adoption of sound risk management and security practices by cloud service providers (CSPs).
MTCS builds upon recognized international standards such as ISO 27001. It is the first cloud security standard with provisions for assessing different levels of security, so certified CSPs can specify which certification level they have achieved. MTCS includes a total of 535 controls and it addresses the following levels of security:
Level 1 covers basic security
Level 2 includes more stringent governance and tenancy controls
Level 3 adds reliability and resiliency for high-impact information systems
Azure and Singapore MTCS
After a rigorous assessment conducted by an accredited MTCS Certification Body, Microsoft Azure was grantedMTCS certification at Level 3. A Level 3 certification means that in-scope Azure services can host high-impact data for regulated organizations with the strictest security requirements. It’s required for certain cloud solution implementations by the Singapore government.
Applicability
Azure
Services in scope
For a list of Microsoft cloud services in audit scope, see the separate Azure and Dynamics 365 MTCS certificates orCloud services in audit scope:
Azure
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Power Platform
Office 365 and Singapore MTCS
For more information about Office 365 compliance, seeOffice 365 Singapore MTCS documentation.
Attestation documents
Microsoft Azure MTCS certificate and self-disclosure form can be downloaded from the IMDA list ofMTCS certified IaaS/PaaS cloud services. It covers Azure, select Microsoft 365, and Power Platform online services.
Microsoft Dynamics 365 MTCS certificate and self-disclosure form can be downloaded from the IMDA list ofMTCS certified SaaS cloud services.
Alternatively, you can access Azure and Dynamics 365 MTCS audit documents from the Service Trust Portal (STP)Singapore MTCSsection. For instructions on how to access audit reports, seeAudit documentation.
Frequently asked questions
What are the differences between MTCS security levels?MTCS has a total of 535 controls that cover three levels of security:
Level 1is low cost, with a minimum number of required baseline security controls. It is suitable for web site hosting, test and development work, simulation, and noncritical business applications.
Level 2addresses the needs of most organizations that are concerned about data security, with a set of more stringent controls targeted at security risks and threats to data. Level 2 is applicable for most cloud usage, including mission-critical business applications.
Level 3is designed for regulated organizations with specific requirements and those willing to pay for stricter security requirements. Level 3 adds a set of security controls to supplement controls in Levels 1 and 2. They address security risks and threats in high-impact information systems using cloud services, such as hosting applications with sensitive information and in regulated systems.
Where can I get MTCS audit documentation?For links to audit documentation, seeAttestation documents. You can download MTCS audit documents from the Service Trust Portal (STP) or directly from the IMDA list of MTCS certified cloud services. You must have an existing Azure subscription orfree Azure trial accountto sign in to the STP. You can then download audit certificates, assessment reports, and other applicable documents to help you with your own regulatory requirements.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Infocomm Media Development Authority(IMDA)
IMDACloud Computing and Services
MTCS Certification Scheme
Additional resources