Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Microsoft Entra ID Protection?
Article
2025-02-28
15 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Entra ID Protection helps organizations detect, investigate, and remediate identity-based risks. These risks can be fed into tools like Conditional Access to make access decisions or sent to a security information and event management (SIEM) tool for further investigation and correlation.

Detect risks
Microsoft continually adds and updates detections in our catalog to protect organizations. These detections come from our learnings based on the analysis of trillions of signals each day from Active Directory, Microsoft Accounts, and in gaming with Xbox. This broad range of signals helps ID Protection detect risky behaviors like:
Anonymous IP address usage
Password spray attacks
Leaked credentials
and more...
During each sign-in, ID Protection runs all real-time sign-in detections, generating a sign-in session risk level that indicates how likely the sign-in is compromised. Based on this risk level, policies are applied to protect the user and the organization.
For a full listing of risks and how they're detected, see the articleWhat is risk.
Investigate
Any risks detected on an identity are tracked with reporting. ID Protection provides three key reports for administrators to investigate risks and take action:
Risk detections:Each risk detected is reported as a risk detection.
Risky sign-ins:A risky sign-in is reported when there are one or more risk detections reported for that sign-in.
Risky users:A Risky user is reported when either or both of the following are true:The user has one or more Risky sign-ins.One or more risk detections are reported.
The user has one or more Risky sign-ins.
One or more risk detections are reported.
For more information about how to use the reports, see the articleHow To: Investigate risk.
Remediate risks
Why is automation critical in security?
In the blog post Cyber Signals: Defending against cyber threats with the latest research, insights, and trends dated February 3, 2022, Microsoft shared a threat intelligence brief including the following statistics:
Analyzed ...24 trillion security signals combined with intelligence we track by monitoring more than 40 nation-state groups and over 140 threat groups...
...From January 2021 through December 2021, we’ve blocked more than 25.6 billion Microsoft Entra brute force authentication attacks...
The scale of signals and attacks requires automation to keep up.
Automatic remediation
Risk-based Conditional Access policiescan be enabled to require access controls such as providing a strong authentication method, perform multifactor authentication, or perform a secure password reset based on the detected risk level. If the user successfully completes the access control, the risk is automatically remediated.
Manual remediation
When user remediation isn't enabled, an admin must manually review them in the reports in the portal, through the API, or in Microsoft 365 Defender. Admins can perform manual actions to dismiss, confirm safe, or confirm compromise on the risks.
Making use of the data
Data from ID Protection can be exported to other tools for archive, further investigation, and correlation. The Microsoft Graph based APIs allow organizations to collect this data for further processing in a tool such as their SIEM. Information about how to access the ID Protection API can be found in the article, Get started with Microsoft Entra ID Protection and Microsoft Graph
Information about integrating ID Protection information with Microsoft Sentinel can be found in the article, Connect data from Microsoft Entra ID Protection.
Organizations might store data for longer periods by changing the diagnostic settings in Microsoft Entra ID. They can choose to send data to a Log Analytics workspace, archive data to a storage account, stream data to Event Hubs, or send data to another solution. Detailed information about how to do so can be found in the article, How To: Export risk data.
Required roles
ID Protection requires users to be assigned one or more of the following roles.
Currently, the Security Operator role can't access the Risky sign-ins report.
Conditional Access Administrators can create policies that factor in user or sign-in risk as a condition. Find more information in the articleConditional Access: Conditions.
License requirements
Using this feature requires Microsoft Entra ID P2 licenses. To find the right license for your requirements, seeCompare generally available features of Microsoft Entra ID.
More information on these rich reports can be found in the article,How To: Investigate risk.
To use workload identity risk, including theRisky workload identitiesandWorkload identity detectionstab in theRisk detectionspanes in the admin center, you need Workload Identities Premium licensing. For more information, see the articleSecuring workload identities.
Next steps
Plan a Microsoft Entra ID Protection deployment
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources