Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Previous generation Azure VM size series
Article
2024-09-17
1 contributor
In this article
This article provides a list of all size series that are consideredprevious-gen. Status is listed asnext-gen availableorcapacity limitedbased on capacity. For sizes that require it there aremigration guidesto help move to replacement sizes.
Note
Series listed asprevious-genarenot currently retiredand can still be used. To view retired size series, seeRetired Azure VM size series.
What are previous-gen size series?
Previous generation virtual machine size series are running on older hardware. While they can still be used and are fully supported, there are newer generations available. It's recommended to migrate to the latest generation replacements.
To learn more about previous-gen sizes, retirement, and the status states of previous-gen size series, see thesize series retirement overview.
General purpose previous-gen sizes
For a list of general purpose sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired general purpose sizes.
Compute optimized previous-gen sizes
For a list of compute optimized sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired compute optimized sizes.
Memory optimized previous-gen sizes
For a list of memory optimized sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired memory optimized sizes.
Storage optimized previous-gen sizes
For a list of storage optimized sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired storage optimized sizes.
GPU accelerated previous-gen sizes
For a list of GPU accelerated sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired GPU accelerated sizes.
FPGA accelerated previous-gen sizes
Currently there are no previous-gen or capacity limited FPGA accelerated sizes.
For a list of FPGA accelerated sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired fpga accelerated sizes.
HPC previous-gen sizes
Currently there are no previous-gen or capacity limited HPC sizes.
For a list of HPC sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired HPC sizes.
ADH previous-gen sizes
Currently there are no previous-gen or capacity limited ADH sizes.
For a list of ADH sizes listed as "retired" and "announced for retirement" (sizes that are no longer available or soon to be unavailable for use), seeretired ADH sizes.
Next steps
For a list of retired sizes, seeRetired Azure VM sizes.
For more information on VM sizes, seeSizes for virtual machines in Azure.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources