Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Connect to data sources
Article
2025-04-02
2 contributors
In this article
This article provides opinionated recommendations for how administrators and other power users can configure connections between Azure Databricks and data sources. If you are trying to determine whether you have access to read data from an external system, start by reviewing the data that you have access to in your workspace. SeeDiscover data.
Note
For information about connecting to external services that are not necessarily data sources, seeManage access to external cloud services using service credentials.
You can connect your Azure Databricks account to data sources such as cloud object storage, relational database management systems, streaming data services, and enterprise platforms such as CRMs. The specific privileges required to configure connections depends on the data source, how permissions in your Azure Databricks workspace are configured, the required permissions for interacting with data in the source, your data governance model, and your preferred method for connecting.
Most methods require elevated privileges on both the data source and the Azure Databricks workspace to configure the necessary permissions to integrate systems. Users without these permissions should request help. SeeRequest access to data sources.
Configure object storage connections
Cloud object storage provides the basis for storing most data on Azure Databricks. To learn more about cloud object storage and where Azure Databricks stores data, seeWhere does Azure Databricks write data?.
Databricks recommends using Unity Catalog to configure access to cloud object storage. Unity Catalog provides data governance for both structured and unstructured data in cloud object storage. SeeConnect to cloud object storage and services using Unity Catalog.
Customers who don’t use Unity Catalog must configure connections using legacy methods. SeeConfigure access to cloud object storage for Azure Databricks.
To configure networking to cloud object storage, seeNetworking.
Configure connections to external systems
Databricks recommends several options for configuring connections to external data systems depending on your needs. The following table provides a high-level overview of these options:
Request access to data sources
In many organizations, most users do not have sufficient privileges on either Azure Databricks or external data sources to configure data connections.
Your organization might have already configured access to a data source using one of the patterns described in the articles linked from this page. If your organization has a well-defined process for requesting access to data, Databricks recommends following that process.
If you’re uncertain how to gain access to a data source, this procedure might help you:
Use Catalog Explorer to view the tables and volumes that you can access. SeeWhat is Catalog Explorer?.
Ask your teammates or managers about the data sources that they can access.Most organizations use groups synced from their identity provider (for example: Okta or Microsoft Entra ID) to manage permissions for workspace users. If other members of your team can access data sources that you need access to, have a workspace admin add you to the correct group to grant you access.If a particular table, volume, or data source was configured by a co-worker, that individual should have permissions to grant you access to the data.
Most organizations use groups synced from their identity provider (for example: Okta or Microsoft Entra ID) to manage permissions for workspace users. If other members of your team can access data sources that you need access to, have a workspace admin add you to the correct group to grant you access.
If a particular table, volume, or data source was configured by a co-worker, that individual should have permissions to grant you access to the data.
Some organizations configure data access permissions through settings on compute clusters and SQL warehouses.Access to data sources can vary by compute.You can view the compute creator on theComputetab. Reach out to the creator to ask about data sources that should be accessible.
Access to data sources can vary by compute.
You can view the compute creator on theComputetab. Reach out to the creator to ask about data sources that should be accessible.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources