Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Details of the Reserve Bank of India - IT Framework for NBFC Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
Article
2025-04-07
3 contributors
In this article
The following article details how the Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
definition maps tocompliance domainsandcontrolsin Reserve Bank of India - IT Framework for NBFC.
For more information about this compliance standard, seeReserve Bank of India - IT Framework for NBFC. To understandOwnership, review thepolicy typeandShared responsibility in the cloud.
The following mappings are to theReserve Bank of India - IT Framework for NBFCcontrols. Many of the controls
are implemented with anAzure Policyinitiative definition. To review the complete
initiative definition, openPolicyin the Azure portal and select theDefinitionspage.
Then, find and select the[Preview]: Reserve Bank of India - IT Framework for NBFCRegulatory Compliance built-in
initiative definition.
Important
Each control below is associated with one or moreAzure Policydefinitions.
These policies may help youassess compliancewith the
control; however, there often is not a one-to-one or complete match between a control and one or
more policies. As such,Compliantin Azure Policy refers only to the policy definitions
themselves; this doesn't ensure you're fully compliant with all requirements of a control. In
addition, the compliance standard includes controls that aren't addressed by any Azure Policy
definitions at this time. Therefore, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your
overall compliance status. The associations between compliance domains, controls, and Azure Policy
definitions for this compliance standard may change over time. To view the change history, see theGitHub Commit History.
IT Governance
IT Governance-1
ID: RBI IT Framework 1
IT Governance-1.1
ID: RBI IT Framework 1.1
Information and Cyber Security
Information Security-3
ID: RBI IT Framework 3
Identification and Classification of Information Assets-3.1
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.1.a
Segregation of Functions-3.1
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.1.b
Role based Access Control-3.1
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.1.c
Maker-checker-3.1
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.1.f
Trails-3.1
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.1.g
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)-3.1
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.1.h
Vulnerability Management-3.3
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.3
Digital Signatures-3.8
ID: RBI IT Framework 3.8
IT Operations
IT Operations-4.2
ID: RBI IT Framework 4.2
IT Operations-4.4
ID: RBI IT Framework 4.4.a
MIS For Top Management-4.4
ID: RBI IT Framework 4.4.b
IS Audit
Policy for Information System Audit (IS Audit)-5
ID: RBI IT Framework 5
Coverage-5.2
ID: RBI IT Framework 5.2
Business Continuity Planning
Business Continuity Planning (BCP) and Disaster Recovery-6
ID: RBI IT Framework 6
Recovery strategy / Contingency Plan-6.2
ID: RBI IT Framework 6.2
Recovery strategy / Contingency Plan-6.3
ID: RBI IT Framework 6.3
Recovery strategy / Contingency Plan-6.4
ID: RBI IT Framework 6.4
Next steps
Additional articles about Azure Policy:
Regulatory Complianceoverview.
See theinitiative definition structure.
Review other examples atAzure Policy samples.
ReviewUnderstanding policy effects.
Learn how toremediate non-compliant resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources