Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Automatically apply classifications on assets in Data Map
Article
2025-03-25
1 contributor
In this article
After data sources areregisteredin Microsoft Purview Data Map, the next step is toscanthe data sources. The scanning process establishes a connection to the data source, captures technical metadata, and can automatically classify data using either thesupported system classificationsorrules for your custom classifications.
For example, if you have a file namedmultiple.docxand it has a National ID number in its content, during the scanning process Data Map adds the classificationEU National Identification Numberto the file asset's detail page.
Theseclassificationshelp you and your team identify the kinds of data you have across your data estate. For example: if files or tables contain credit card numbers, or addresses. Then you can more easily search for certain kinds of information, like customer IDs, or prioritize security for sensitive data types.
Classifications can be automatically applied on file and column assets during scanning.
In this article we'll discuss:
The steps to automatically apply classifications
How Microsoft Purview classifies assets
Automatically apply classifications
Note
Table assets are not automatically assigned classifications, because the classifications are assigned to their columns, but you canmanually apply classifications to table assets.
After data sources areregistered, you can automatically classify data in that source's data assets by running ascan.
Check theScansection of thesource articlefor your data source to confirm any prerequisites or authentication are set up and ready for a scan.
Check theScansection of thesource articlefor your data source to confirm any prerequisites or authentication are set up and ready for a scan.
Search the Microsoft Purview Data Map the registered source that has the data assets (files and columns), you want to classify.
Search the Microsoft Purview Data Map the registered source that has the data assets (files and columns), you want to classify.
Select theNew Scanicon under the resource.TipIf you don't see the New Scan button, you may not have correct permissions. To run a scan, you'll need at leastdata source administrator permissionson the collection where the source is registered.
Select theNew Scanicon under the resource.

Tip
If you don't see the New Scan button, you may not have correct permissions. To run a scan, you'll need at leastdata source administrator permissionson the collection where the source is registered.
Select your credential and authenticate with your source. (For more information about authenticating with your source, see theprerequisiteandscansections of your specific sourcesource article.) SelectContinue.
Select your credential and authenticate with your source. (For more information about authenticating with your source, see theprerequisiteandscansections of your specific sourcesource article.) SelectContinue.
If necessary, select the assets in the source you want to scan. You can scan all assets, or a subset of folders, files, or tables depending on the source.
If necessary, select the assets in the source you want to scan. You can scan all assets, or a subset of folders, files, or tables depending on the source.
Select your scan rule set. You'll see a list of available scan rule sets and can select one, or you can choose to create a new scan rule set using theNew scan rule setbutton at the top. The scan rule set will determine which classifications will be compared and applied to your data. For more information, seehow Microsoft Purview classifies assets.TipFor more information about the options available when creating a scan rule set, start at step 4 of thesesteps to create a scan rule set.
Select your scan rule set. You'll see a list of available scan rule sets and can select one, or you can choose to create a new scan rule set using theNew scan rule setbutton at the top. The scan rule set will determine which classifications will be compared and applied to your data. For more information, seehow Microsoft Purview classifies assets.

Tip
For more information about the options available when creating a scan rule set, start at step 4 of thesesteps to create a scan rule set.
Schedule your scan.
Schedule your scan.
Save and run your scan. Applicable classifications in your scan rule set will be automatically applied to the assets you scan. You'll be able to view and manage them once the scan is complete.
Save and run your scan. Applicable classifications in your scan rule set will be automatically applied to the assets you scan. You'll be able to view and manage them once the scan is complete.
View classification details
Microsoft Purview captures important details like who applied a classification and when it was applied. To view the details, hover over the classification to revel the Classification details card. The classification details card shows the following information:
Classification name - Name of the classification applied on the asset or column.
Applied by - Who applied the classification. Possible values are scan and user name.
Applied time - Local timestamp when the classification was applied via scan or manually.
Classification type - System or custom.
Users with Data Curator role can see more details for classifications that were applied automatically through a scan. These details include sample count that the scanner read to classify the data, and distinct data count in the sample that the scanner found.
Impact of rescanning on existing classifications
Classification tags are automatically applied the first time based on sampling your data and matching those samples against predefined RegEx patterns or dictionaries. Subsequent rescans can preserve, remove, or incrementally add classification tags depending on several factors:
A scan run doesn't remove classification tags that were manually applied.
A scan run doesn't remove classification tags that were manually applied.
A scan run doesn't reapply classification tags that were manually removed.
A scan run doesn't reapply classification tags that were manually removed.
A later run of a scan that continues to use the same scan rule can update the classification tags.
A later run of a scan that continues to use the same scan rule can update the classification tags.
For a scan run, classification tags from the previous scans can get removed or retained based on the criteria listed in this table:File typeFile sizeClassification tags from previous scan will be:File types with no size (for example, SQL)AllRetained.doc, .docm, .docx, .dot, .odp, .ods, .odt, .pdf, .pot, .pps, .ppsx, .ppt, .pptm, .pptx, .txt, .xlc, .xls, .xlsb, .xlsm, .xlsx, .xlt>20 MBRetained.doc, .docm, .docx, .dot, .odp, .ods, .odt, .pdf, .pot, .pps, .ppsx, .ppt, .pptm, .pptx, .txt, .xlc, .xls, .xlsb, .xlsm, .xlsx, .xlt<20 MBRemovedGZ>400 KBRetainedGZ<400 KBRemovedFiles with no extension or structured file types> 1 MBRetainedFiles with no extension or structured file types< 1 MBRemoved
For a scan run, classification tags from the previous scans can get removed or retained based on the criteria listed in this table:
How Microsoft Purview classifies assets
When a data source is scanned, Microsoft Purview compares data in the asset to a list of possible classifications called ascan rule set.
There aresystem scan rule setsalready available for each data source that contains every currently available system classification for that data source. Or, you cancreate a custom scan rule setto make a list of classifications tailored to your data set.
Making a custom rule sets for your data can be a good idea if your data is limited to specific kinds of information, or regions, as comparing your data to fewer classification types will speed up the scanning process. For example, if your dataset only contains European data, you could create a custom scan rule set that excludes identification for other regions.
You might also make a custom rule set if you've createdcustom classificationsandclassification rules, so that your custom classifications can be automatically applied during scanning.
For more information about the available system classifications and how your data is classified, see thelist of system classifications.
Next steps
Learn how tocreate a custom classification.
Learn how tomanually apply classifications.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources