Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Select a Defender for Servers plan and deployment scope
Article
2025-02-23
10 contributors
In this article
This article helps you understand whichDefender for Servers planto deploy in Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
Before you begin
This article is thethirdin the Defender for Servers planning guide. Before you begin, review the earlier articles:
Startplanning your deployment.
ReviewDefender for Servers access roles.
Review plans
Defender for Servers offers two paid plans:
Defender for Servers Plan 1is entry-level, and focuses on the endpoint detection and response (EDR) capabilities provided by the Defender for Endpoint integration with Defender for Cloud.
Defender for Servers Plan 1is entry-level, and focuses on the endpoint detection and response (EDR) capabilities provided by the Defender for Endpoint integration with Defender for Cloud.
Defender for Servers Plan 2provides the same features as Plan 1, and more:Agentless scanningfor machine posture scanning, vulnerability assessment, threat protection, malware scanning, and secrets scanning.Compliance assessmentagainst various regulatory standards. Available with Defender for Servers Plan 2 or any other paid plan.Capabilities provided bypremium Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management.A free data ingestion benefitfor specific data types.OS configuration assessmentagainst compute security baselines in the Microsoft Cloud Security Benchmark.OS updates assessmentwith Azure Updates integrated into Defender for Servers.File integrity monitoringto examine files and registries for changes that might indicate an attack.Just-in-time machine accessto lock down machine ports and reduce attack surfaces.Network mapto get a geographical view of network recommendations.
Defender for Servers Plan 2provides the same features as Plan 1, and more:
Agentless scanningfor machine posture scanning, vulnerability assessment, threat protection, malware scanning, and secrets scanning.
Compliance assessmentagainst various regulatory standards. Available with Defender for Servers Plan 2 or any other paid plan.
Capabilities provided bypremium Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management.
A free data ingestion benefitfor specific data types.
OS configuration assessmentagainst compute security baselines in the Microsoft Cloud Security Benchmark.
OS updates assessmentwith Azure Updates integrated into Defender for Servers.
File integrity monitoringto examine files and registries for changes that might indicate an attack.
Just-in-time machine accessto lock down machine ports and reduce attack surfaces.
Network mapto get a geographical view of network recommendations.
For a full list, reviewDefender for Servers plan features.
Decide on deployment scope
We recommend enabling Defender for Servers at the subscription level, but you can enable and disable Defender for Servers plans at the resource level if you need deployment granularity.
Plan 1 can be enabled and disabled at resource level.
Plan 2 can't be enabled at the resource level, but you can disable the plan at the resource level.
Here are some use case examples to help you decide on Defender for Servers deployment scope.
Learn moreabout how to deploy the plan on a subscription and on specific resources.
Workspace considerations
Defender for Servers needs a Log Analytics workspace when:
You deploy Defender for Servers Plan 2 and you want to take advantage of free daily ingestion for specific data types.Learn more.
You deploy Defender for Servers Plan 2 and you're using file integrity monitoring.Learn more.
Azure ARC onboarding
We recommend that you onboard machine in non-Azure clouds and on-premises to Azure as Azure Arc-enabled VMs. Enabling as Azure Arc VMs allows machines to take full advantage of Defender for Servers features. Azure Arc-enabled machines have the Azure Arc Connected Machine agent installed on them.
When you use the Defender for Cloud multicloud connector to connect toAmazon Web Service (AWS) accountsandGoogle Cloud Platform (GCP) projects, you can automatically onboard the Azure Arc agent to AWS or GCP servers.
We recommend that youonboard on-premises machines as Azure Arc-enabled.
Although you onboardon-premises machines by directly installing the Defender for Endpoint agentinstead of onboarding machines with Azure Arc, Defender for Servers Plan functionality remains available. For Defender for Servers Plan 2, in addition to Plan 1 features, only the premium Defender Vulnerability Management features are available.
Before you deploy Azure Arc:
Review a full listof operating systems supported by Azure Arc.
Review the Azure Arcplanning recommendationsanddeployment prerequisites.
Review networking requirementsfor the Connected Machine agent.
Open thenetwork ports for Azure Arcin your firewall.
Review requirements for the Connected Machine agent:Agent components and data collected from machines.Network and internet accessfor the agent.Connection optionsfor the agent.
Agent components and data collected from machines.
Network and internet accessfor the agent.
Connection optionsfor the agent.
Next steps
Understand how data is collectedto Azure.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources