Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Geographical availability and data residency in Microsoft Sentinel
Article
2025-02-18
4 contributors
In this article
After your data is collected, stored, and processed, compliance can become an important design requirement, with a significant impact on your Microsoft Sentinel architecture. Having the ability to validate and prove who has access to what data under all conditions is a critical data sovereignty requirement in many countries and regions, and assessing risks and getting insights in Microsoft Sentinel workflows is a priority for many customers.
This article can help you meet compliance requirements by describing where Microsoft Sentinel data is stored.
Collected data
Microsoft Sentinel collects the following types of data:
Raw data, such as event data collected from connected Microsoft services and partner systems. Data from multiple clouds and sources are streamed to the customer’s Azure Log Analytics workspace associated with Microsoft Sentinel, under the customer’s tenant’s subscription. This approach gives the customer the ability to choose region and retention and deletion policies.
Processed data, such as incidents, alerts, and so on.
Configuration data, such as connector settings, rules, and so on.
Data storage location
Data used by the service, including customer data, might be stored and processed in the following locations:
Supported regions
Regions supported for Microsoft Sentinel raw data, and for processed and configuration data in workspaces not onboarded to the Defender portal, include:
Data retention
Data from Microsoft Sentinel is retained until the earliest of the following dates:
The customerremoves Microsoft Sentinel from their workspace
As per a retention policy set by the customer
Until that time, customers can always delete their data.
Customer data is kept and is available while the license is under a grace period or in suspended mode. At the end of this period, and no later than 90 days from contract termination or expiration, the data is erased from Microsoft's systems to make it unrecoverable.
Data sharing for Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Sentinel may share data, including customer data, among the following Microsoft products:
Microsoft Defender XDR
Azure Log Analytics
Related content
For more information, see:
Details aboutAzure regions, useful when designing your workspace architecture.
Business continuity and disaster recovery for Microsoft Sentinel
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources