Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Managed Grafana?
Article
2025-04-17
3 contributors
In this article
Azure Managed Grafana is a data visualization platform built on top of the Grafana software by Grafana Labs. It's built as a fully managed Azure service operated and supported by Microsoft. Grafana helps you bring together metrics, logs and traces into a single user interface. With its extensive support for data sources and graphing capabilities, you can view and analyze your application and infrastructure telemetry data in real-time.
Azure Managed Grafana is optimized for the Azure environment. It works seamlessly with many Azure services and provides the following integration features:
Built-in support forAzure MonitorandAzure Data Explorer
User authentication and access control using Microsoft Entra identities
Direct import of existing charts from the Azure portal
To learn more about how Grafana works, visit theGetting Started documentationon the Grafana Labs website.
Why use Azure Managed Grafana?
Azure Managed Grafana lets you bring together all your telemetry data into one place. It can access a wide variety of data sources supported, including your data stores in Azure and elsewhere. By combining charts, logs and alerts into one view, you can get a holistic view of your application and infrastructure, and correlate information across multiple datasets.
As a fully managed service, Azure Managed Grafana lets you deploy Grafana without having to deal with setup. The service provides high availability, SLA guarantees and automatic software updates.
You can share Grafana dashboards with people inside and outside of your organization and allow others to join in for monitoring or troubleshooting.
Azure Managed Grafana uses Microsoft Entra ID’s centralized identity management, which allows you to control which users can use a Grafana workspace, and you can use managed identities to access Azure data stores, such as Azure Monitor.
You can create dashboards instantaneously by importing existing charts directly from the Azure portal or by using prebuilt dashboards.
Service tiers
Azure Managed Grafana is available in the two service tiers presented below.
TheAzure Managed Grafana pricing pagegives more information on these tiers and the following table lists the main features supported in each tier:
Note
Users can upgrade an workspace from Essential (preview) to Standard by going toSettings>Configuration>Pricing Plans. Downgrading from Standard to Essential (preview) however isn't supported.
Note
Grafana Enterprise is an option within the Standard plan, not a separate plan within Azure.
Quotas
Different quotas apply to Azure Managed Grafana service instances depending on their service tiers. For a list of the quotas that apply to the Essential (preview) and Standard pricing plans, seequotas.
Related content
Create an Azure Managed Grafana workspace using the Azure portal
Create an Azure Managed Grafana workspace using the Azure CLI
Frequently asked questions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources