Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Ingress in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Article
2025-02-18
4 contributors
In this article
Ingress in AKS is a Kubernetes resource that manages external HTTP-like traffic access toserviceswithin a cluster. An AKS ingress may provide services like load balancing, SSL termination, and name-based virtual hosting. For more information about Kubernetes Ingress, see theKubernetes Ingress documentation.
Ingress controllers
When managing application traffic, Ingress controllers provide advanced capabilities by operating at layer 7. They can route HTTP traffic to different applications based on the inbound URL, allowing for more intelligent and flexible traffic distribution rules. For example, an ingress controller can direct traffic to different microservices depending on the URL path, enhancing the efficiency and organization of your services.
On the other hand, a LoadBalancer-type Service, when created, sets up an underlying Azure load balancer resource. This load balancer works at layer 4, distributing traffic to the pods in your Service on a specified port. However, layer 4 services are unaware of the actual applications and can't implement these types of complex routing rules.
Understanding the distinction between these two approaches helps in selecting the right tool for your traffic management needs.

Compare ingress options
The following table lists the feature differences between the different ingress controller options:
The following table lists the different scenarios where you might use each ingress controller:
Note
Gateway API forIstio ingress trafficis not yet supported for the Istio add-on, but is currently under active development.
Create an Ingress resource
The application routing addon is the recommended way to configure an Ingress controller in AKS. The application routing addon is a fully managed ingress controller for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) that provides the following features:
Easy configuration of managed NGINX Ingress controllers based on Kubernetes NGINX Ingress controller.
Easy configuration of managed NGINX Ingress controllers based on Kubernetes NGINX Ingress controller.
Integration with Azure DNS for public and private zone management.
Integration with Azure DNS for public and private zone management.
SSL termination with certificates stored in Azure Key Vault.
SSL termination with certificates stored in Azure Key Vault.
For more information about the application routing addon, seeManaged NGINX ingress with the application routing add-on.
Client source IP preservation
Configure your ingress controller to preserve the client source IP on requests to containers in your AKS cluster. When your ingress controller routes a client's request to a container in your AKS cluster, the original source IP of that request is unavailable to the target container. When you enableclient source IP preservation, the source IP for the client is available in the request header underX-Forwarded-For.
If you're using client source IP preservation on your ingress controller, you can't use TLS pass-through. Client source IP preservation and TLS pass-through can be used with other services, such as theLoadBalancertype.
To learn more about client source IP preservation, seeHow client source IP preservation works for LoadBalancer Services in AKS.
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources