Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Get started managing your project
Article
2025-02-05
11 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
With most Azure DevOps Services, you can start using the service and configure resources as you go. No up-front work is required. Most settings define defaults.
If you created a project or you're added to theProject Administratorsgroup, get familiar with the administrative tasks you're charged with. There are a few tasks you might want to do to ensure a smooth operational experience.
Prerequisites
Note
This article provides an overview of tasks a member of theProject Administratorsgroup should review and attend to. For information on tasks to be performed by members of theProject Collection Administratorsgroup, seeManage your organization or project collection.

Add users to your project
You add users to a team or project so they can contribute to the team and project. Users can be added to multiple teams and projects.
Users that have been added to an organization, can easily be added to a project by adding them to a team or inviting them to contribute to a project.
Team administrators can add users to their team which automatically adds them to the project. By adding users to a team, you make team-specific tools aware of them, such as the team security group, Team Members widget, and sprint capacity planning tools. To learn more about teams, seeAbout teams and Agile tools.
Members of theProject Administratorsgroup can add users to a project.  Adding users to a team or project automatically adds them to the project'sContributorsgroup. Members of this group have permissions to most features needed to contribute to work items, code, builds, and releases. For an overview of default permissions, seeDefault permissions quick reference.
Once users have been added to a project or organization, you can browse for their display name or user name (email alias) from any people-picker tool. Users can connect to a project and access features available through a supported client or the web portal.
For more information, see the following articles:
Add users or groups to a team or project
Manage your organization or project collection, Add users to your organization
Connect to a project

Share your project vision, set up a project wiki
Each project has a summary page that's useful for sharing information throughREADMEfiles. Or, redirect users to a project Wiki. For users who are new to your project, we recommend that youset up your project summary page. Or, you canprovision a Wiki. Use these features to share established processes and procedures for your project.
Each project has a summary page that's useful for sharing information throughREADME files. For users who are new to your project, we recommend that youset up your project summary page. Or, you canprovision a Wiki. Use these features to share established processes and procedures for your project.
Remove unused services
To simplify the web portal user interface, you can disable select services. For example, if you use a project only to log bugs, then disable all services except forBoards. For more information, seeTurn a service on or off.
This example shows thatTest Plansis disabled:

Manage security and permissions
Permissions and security groups control access to specific tasks. To quickly understand the defaults configured for your project, seeDefault permissions and access.
The following table lists the permissions assigned at the project-level. All of these permissions are granted to members of theProject Administratorsgroup, except for theDelete shared Analytics viewsandEdit shared Analytics viewspermissions which are not set. For a description of each permission, seePermissions and groups reference, Groups.
Note
Permissions associated with Analytics requires that the Inherited process model is selected for an on-premises project collection.
General
Delete team project
Edit project-level information
Manage project properties
Rename team project
Suppress notifications for work item updates
Update project visibility
View project-level information
Delete team project
Edit project-level information
Manage project properties
Rename team project
Suppress notifications for work item updates
View project-level information
Boards
Bypass rules on work item updates
Change process of team project
Create tag definition
Delete and restore work items
Move work items out of this project
Permanently delete work items
Bypass rules on work item updates
Change process of team project
Create tag definition
Delete and restore work items
Move work items out of this project
Permanently delete work items
Analytics
Delete shared Analytics views
Edit shared Analytics views
View analytics
Test Plans
Create test runs
Delete test runs
Manage test configurations
Manage test environments
View test runs
For more information about security and setting permissions at the project-level, review the following articles:
Get started with permissions, access, and security groups
Change permissions at the project-level
Add members to the Project Administrators group
The person who creates a project is automatically added as a member to theProject Administratorsgroup. Members of this group have permissions to manage project configuration, repositories, pipeline resources, teams, and all project-level permissions.
It's always a good idea to have more than one person who has administrative privileges. To add a user to this group, seeChange permissions at the project level, Add members to the Project Administrators group.
Grant or restrict permissions
Permissions are managed at the following three levels and through role-based assignments.
object
project
organization or collection
As a member of theProject Administratorsgroup, you can grant or restrict permissions for all objects and at the project-level. To delegate specific tasks to others, we recommend that you add them to a built-in or custom security group, or add them to a specific role. For more information, see the following articles.
Role-based permissions
Add or remove users or groups, manage security groups
Manage access to specific features and functions
Set object-level permissions
Review and update notifications
A number of notifications are predefined for each project you add. Notifications are based on subscription rules. Subscriptions arise from the following areas:
Out-of-the-box or default subscriptions.
Team, project, and organization or collection subscriptionsdefined by a team administrator or member of theProject AdministratorsorProject Collection Administratorsgroups.
If users believe they're getting too many notifications, you can direct them toopt out of a subscription.

Determine traceability requirements
If you're using most of Azure DevOps Services—Boards, Repos, Pipelines, and Test Plans— you'll want to alert your teams to those features that support end-to-end traceability. To get started, we recommend that you review the following articles:
Cross-service integration and collaboration overview
End-to-end traceability
Set DevOps policies
Set policies to support collaboration across your teams and automatically remove obsolete files. To set policies that govern Azure Repos, Azure Pipelines, and Azure Test Plans, review the following articles:
Manage branch policies
Add Team Foundation Version Control (TFVC) check-in policies
Set build and release pipeline retention policies
Set test retention policies
Configure and customize Azure Boards
You can configure and customize Azure Boards to support many business requirements for planning and tracking work. At a minimum, you should configure the following elements:
Area paths to group work items by team, product, or feature area
Iteration paths to group work into sprints, milestones, or other event-specific or time-related periods
If you're new to Azure Boards and want an in-depth overview of what you can configure and customize, seeConfigure and customize Azure Boards.

Define area and iteration paths to track work
If you support several products, you can assign work items by feature area by definingarea paths. To assign work items to specific time intervals, also known as sprints, you configureiteration paths. To use the Scrum tools—sprint backlogs, taskboards, and team capacity—you need to configure several sprints. For an overview, seeAbout areas and iteration paths.

Customize work-tracking processes
You and your team can start using all work-tracking tools immediately after you create a project. But often, one or more users want to customize the experience to meet one or more business needs. You can customize the process easily through the user interface. As such, you'll want to establish a methodology for who will manage the updates and evaluate requests.
Note
By default, organization owners and users added to theProject Collection Administratorssecurity group are granted permission to create, edit, and manage processes used to customize the work-tracking experience. If you want to lock down who is able to perform these tasks, you can set permissions at the organization-level toDeny.
For more information, see these articles:
About process customization and inherited processes
Customize a project
Add and manage processes
Integrate with other services
Azure DevOps supports integration with Azure, GitHub, and many other services. As a member of theProject Administratorsgroup, you can configure integration with many of these services. For more information, see the following articles.
Azure DevOps and GitHub integration overview
Azure DevOps and GitHub integration overview
Azure Boards and GitHub integration
Azure Boards and GitHub integration
Microsoft Teams integration:Azure Boards with Microsoft TeamsAzure Repos with Microsoft TeamsAzure Pipelines with Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Teams integration:
Azure Boards with Microsoft Teams
Azure Repos with Microsoft Teams
Azure Pipelines with Microsoft Teams
Slack integration:
Slack integration:
Azure Boards with SlackAzure Repos with SlackAzure Pipelines with Slack
Azure Boards with Slack
Azure Repos with Slack
Azure Pipelines with Slack
Integrate with service hooks
Integrate with service hooks
Add teams to scale your project
As your organization grows, we recommend that you add teams to scale your project. Each team getsaccess to their own set of customizable Agile tools.

For more information, see the following articles:
About projects and scaling your organization
Add a team, move from one default team to several teams
Add a team administrator
Next steps
Share your project vision
Related articles
About projects
Get started managing your organization or project collection
About user, team, project, and organization-level settings
About projects
Get started managing your organization or project collection
About user, team, project, and organization-level settings
TFS administration
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources