Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Upgrade the API version of your Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB account
Article
2024-08-14
2 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:MongoDB
This article describes how to upgrade the API version of your Azure Cosmos DB's API for MongoDB account. After your upgrade, you can use the latest functionality in Azure Cosmos DB's API for MongoDB. The upgrade process doesn't interrupt the availability of your account and it doesn't consume RU/s or decrease the capacity of the database at any point. This process doesn't affect existing data or indexes.
When upgrading to a new API version, start with development/test workloads before upgrading production workloads. It's important to upgrade your clients to a version compatible with the API version you're upgrading to before upgrading your Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB account.
Warning
At this moment, only qualifying accounts using the server version 3.2 can be upgraded to version 3.6 and higher. If your account doesn't show the upgrade option, pleasefile a support ticket.
Upgrade your version
Sign into theAzure portal.
Sign into theAzure portal.
Navigate to your Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB account. Open theOverviewpane and verify that your currentServer versionis either 3.2 or 3.6.
Navigate to your Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB account. Open theOverviewpane and verify that your currentServer versionis either 3.2 or 3.6.

From the left menu, open theFeaturespane. This pane shows the account level features that are available for your database account.
From the left menu, open theFeaturespane. This pane shows the account level features that are available for your database account.
Features
Select theUpgrade MongoDB server versionrow. If you don't see this option, your account might not be eligible for this upgrade. Filea support ticketif that is the case.
Select theUpgrade MongoDB server versionrow. If you don't see this option, your account might not be eligible for this upgrade. Filea support ticketif that is the case.
Upgrade MongoDB server version

Review the information displayed about the upgrade. SelectSet server version to 4.2(or 4.0 or 3.6 depending upon your current version).
Review the information displayed about the upgrade. SelectSet server version to 4.2(or 4.0 or 3.6 depending upon your current version).
Set server version to 4.2

After you start the upgrade, theFeaturemenu is greyed out, and the status is set toPending. The upgrade takes around 15 minutes to complete. This process doesn't affect the existing functionality or operations of your database account. After it's complete, theUpdate MongoDB server versionstatus will show the upgraded version.Contact supportif there was an issue processing your request.
After you start the upgrade, theFeaturemenu is greyed out, and the status is set toPending. The upgrade takes around 15 minutes to complete. This process doesn't affect the existing functionality or operations of your database account. After it's complete, theUpdate MongoDB server versionstatus will show the upgraded version.Contact supportif there was an issue processing your request.
The following are some considerations after upgrading your account:If you upgraded from 3.2, go back to theOverviewpane, and copy the new connection string to use in your application. The old connection string running 3.2 isn't interrupted. To ensure a consistent experience, all your applications must use the new endpoint.If you upgraded from 3.6, your existing connection string is upgraded to the version specified and should continue to be used.
The following are some considerations after upgrading your account:
If you upgraded from 3.2, go back to theOverviewpane, and copy the new connection string to use in your application. The old connection string running 3.2 isn't interrupted. To ensure a consistent experience, all your applications must use the new endpoint.
If you upgraded from 3.2, go back to theOverviewpane, and copy the new connection string to use in your application. The old connection string running 3.2 isn't interrupted. To ensure a consistent experience, all your applications must use the new endpoint.
If you upgraded from 3.6, your existing connection string is upgraded to the version specified and should continue to be used.
If you upgraded from 3.6, your existing connection string is upgraded to the version specified and should continue to be used.
Important
When upgrading from 3.2, the database account endpoint suffix will be updated to the following format:<your_database_account_name>.mongo.cosmos.azure.com. This endpoint may have slight differences if your account was created in a Sovereign, Government or Restricted Azure Cloud.
<your_database_account_name>.mongo.cosmos.azure.com
If you are upgrading from version 3.2, you will need to replace the existing endpoint in your applications and drivers that connect with this database account.Only connections that are using the new endpoint will have access to the features in the new API version. The previous 3.2 endpoint should have the suffix.documents.azure.com.
When upgrading from 3.2 to newer versions,compound indexesare now required to perform sort operations on multiple fields to ensure stable, high performance for these queries. Ensure that these compound indexes are created so that your multi-field sorts succeed.
.documents.azure.com
Downgrade your version
You can also downgrade your account to 4.0 or 3.6 via the same steps in theupgrade your versionsection.
If you upgraded from 3.2 to and wish to downgrade back to 3.2, switch back to using your previous (3.2) connection string with the hostaccountname.documents.azure.com, which remains active post-upgrade running version 3.2.
If you upgraded from 3.2 to and wish to downgrade back to 3.2, switch back to using your previous (3.2) connection string with the hostaccountname.documents.azure.com, which remains active post-upgrade running version 3.2.
accountname.documents.azure.com
Change the connection string in your application.
Change the connection string in your application.
Related content
MongoDB version 6.0 features
MongoDB version 5.0 features
MongoDB version 4.2 features
MongoDB version 4.0 features
MongoDB version 3.6 features
MongoDB version history
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources