Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Review your storage options
Article
2025-03-27
9 contributors
In this article
Storage capabilities are critical for supporting workloads and services that are hosted in the cloud. As you prepare for your cloud adoption, review this information to plan for your storage needs.
Select storage tools and services to support your workloads
Azure Storage is the Azure platform's managed service for providing cloud storage. Azure Storage is composed of several core services and supporting features. Storage in Azure is highly available, secure, durable, scalable, and redundant. Use these scenarios and considerations to choose Azure services and architectures. For more information, seeAzure Storage documentation.
Key questions
Answer the following questions about your workloads to help make decisions about your storage needs:
Do your workloads require disk storage to support the deployment of infrastructure as a service (IaaS) virtual machines?Azure managed disksprovide virtual disk capabilities for IaaS virtual machines.
Do your workloads require disk storage to support the deployment of infrastructure as a service (IaaS) virtual machines?Azure managed disksprovide virtual disk capabilities for IaaS virtual machines.
Will you need to provide downloadable images, documents, or other media as part of your workloads?Azure Blob Storagehosts static files, which are then accessible for download over the internet. For more information, seeStatic website hosting in Azure Storage.
Will you need to provide downloadable images, documents, or other media as part of your workloads?Azure Blob Storagehosts static files, which are then accessible for download over the internet. For more information, seeStatic website hosting in Azure Storage.
Will you need a location to store virtual machine logs, application logs, and analytics data?Azure Monitor hasnative storage for metrics, logs, and distributed traces.Metrics in Azure Monitor are stored in a time-series database that's optimized for analyzing time-stamped data.Trace data is stored with other application log data collected by Application Insights.Logs in Azure Monitor are stored in a Log Analytics workspace that's based onAzure Data Explorer, which provides a powerful analysis engine andrich query language.
Will you need a location to store virtual machine logs, application logs, and analytics data?Azure Monitor hasnative storage for metrics, logs, and distributed traces.
Metrics in Azure Monitor are stored in a time-series database that's optimized for analyzing time-stamped data.
Trace data is stored with other application log data collected by Application Insights.
Logs in Azure Monitor are stored in a Log Analytics workspace that's based onAzure Data Explorer, which provides a powerful analysis engine andrich query language.
Will you need to provide a location for backup, disaster recovery, or archiving workload-related data?Blob Storage provides backup and disaster recovery capabilities. For more information, seeBackup and disaster recovery for Azure IaaS disks.You can also use Blob Storage to back up other resources, like on-premises or IaaS virtual machine-hosted SQL Server data. SeeSQL Server Backup and Restore.
Will you need to provide a location for backup, disaster recovery, or archiving workload-related data?Blob Storage provides backup and disaster recovery capabilities. For more information, seeBackup and disaster recovery for Azure IaaS disks.
You can also use Blob Storage to back up other resources, like on-premises or IaaS virtual machine-hosted SQL Server data. SeeSQL Server Backup and Restore.
Will you need to support big data analytics workloads?Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2is built on Azure Blob Storage. Data Lake Storage Gen2 supports large-enterprise data lake functionality. It also can handle storing petabytes of information while sustaining hundreds of gigabits of throughput.
Will you need to support big data analytics workloads?Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2is built on Azure Blob Storage. Data Lake Storage Gen2 supports large-enterprise data lake functionality. It also can handle storing petabytes of information while sustaining hundreds of gigabits of throughput.
Will you need to provide cloud-native file shares?Azure has services that provide cloud-hosted file shares:Azure NetApp Filesprovides high-performance NFS and SMB shares, with advanced data management features such as snapshots and cloning, that are well suited to common enterprise workloads like SAP.Azure Filesprovides file shares accessible over SMB 3.1.1, NFS 4.1, and HTTPS.Azure Managed Lustreis a high-performance distributed parallel file system solution, ideal for HPC workloads that require high throughput and low latency.
Will you need to provide cloud-native file shares?Azure has services that provide cloud-hosted file shares:
Azure NetApp Filesprovides high-performance NFS and SMB shares, with advanced data management features such as snapshots and cloning, that are well suited to common enterprise workloads like SAP.
Azure Filesprovides file shares accessible over SMB 3.1.1, NFS 4.1, and HTTPS.
Azure Managed Lustreis a high-performance distributed parallel file system solution, ideal for HPC workloads that require high throughput and low latency.
Will you need to support high-performance computing (HPC) workloads?Azure NetApp Filesprovides high-performance NFS and SMB shares, with advanced data management features such as snapshots and cloning, that are well suited to HPC workloads.Azure Managed Lustreis a high-performance distributed parallel file system solution, ideal for HPC workloads that require high throughput and low latency.
Will you need to support high-performance computing (HPC) workloads?
Azure NetApp Filesprovides high-performance NFS and SMB shares, with advanced data management features such as snapshots and cloning, that are well suited to HPC workloads.
Azure Managed Lustreis a high-performance distributed parallel file system solution, ideal for HPC workloads that require high throughput and low latency.
Will you need to perform large-scale archiving and syncing of your on-premises data?Azure Data Boxproducts are designed to help you move large amounts of data from your on-premises environment to the cloud.Azure Data Box Gatewayis a virtual device that's on-premises. Data Box Gateway helps you manage large-scale data migration to the cloud.Azure Stack Edgeaccelerates processing and the secure transfer of data to Azure. If you need to analyze, transform, or filter data before you move it to the cloud, use Azure Data Box.
Will you need to perform large-scale archiving and syncing of your on-premises data?Azure Data Boxproducts are designed to help you move large amounts of data from your on-premises environment to the cloud.
Azure Data Box Gatewayis a virtual device that's on-premises. Data Box Gateway helps you manage large-scale data migration to the cloud.
Azure Stack Edgeaccelerates processing and the secure transfer of data to Azure. If you need to analyze, transform, or filter data before you move it to the cloud, use Azure Data Box.
Do you want to expand an existing on-premises file share to use cloud storage?Azure File Synclets you use the Azure Files service as an extension of file shares that are hosted on your on-premises Windows Server computers. The syncing service transforms Windows Server into a quick cache of your Azure file share. It allows your on-premises computers that access the share to use any protocol that's available on Windows Server.
Do you want to expand an existing on-premises file share to use cloud storage?Azure File Synclets you use the Azure Files service as an extension of file shares that are hosted on your on-premises Windows Server computers. The syncing service transforms Windows Server into a quick cache of your Azure file share. It allows your on-premises computers that access the share to use any protocol that's available on Windows Server.
Common storage scenarios
Azure offers multiple products and services for different storage capabilities. The following table describes potential storage scenarios and the recommended Azure services.
Block storage scenarios
File and object storage scenarios
Plan based on data workloads
Learn more about Azure storage services
After you identify the Azure tools that best match your requirements, use this documentation to learn more about these services:
Data redundancy and availability
Azure Storage has various redundancy options to help ensure durability and high availability based on your needs.
Locally redundant storage
Zone-redundant storage
Geo-redundant storage (GRS)
Read-access GRS (RA-GRS)*
Read-access GZRS (RA-GZRS)*
* Not available for Azure Files.
To learn more about these capabilities and how to decide on the best redundancy option for your use cases, seeAzure Storage redundancyandAzure Files redundancy.
SLAs for storage services provide financially backed guarantees. For more information, seeSLA for managed disks,SLA for virtual machines, andSLA for storage accounts.
For help with planning the right solution for Azure disks, seeBackup and disaster recovery for Azure disk storage.
Security
To help protect your data in the cloud, Azure offers several best practices for data security and encryption:
Secure the storage account by using Azure RBAC and Microsoft Entra ID.
Secure data in transit between an application and Azure by using client-side encryption, HTTPS, or SMB 3.1.1.
Set data to be encrypted when it's written to Azure Storage by using Azure Storage encryption.
Grant delegated access to the data objects in Azure Storage by using shared access signatures.
Use analytics to track the authentication method that someone is using when they access storage in Azure.
These security features apply to Azure Blob Storage (block and page) and to Azure Files. For more information, seeSecurity recommendations for Blob Storage.
Azure Storage provides encryption at rest and safeguards your data. Azure Storage encryption is enabled by default for managed disks, snapshots, and images in all the Azure regions. All new managed disks, snapshots, images, and new data written to existing managed disks are encrypted at rest using keys managed by Microsoft. For more information, seeAzure Storage encryptionandManaged disks and storage service encryption.
Azure Disk Encryption lets you encrypt managed disks that are attached to IaaS virtual machines at rest and in transit.Azure Key Vaultstores your keys. For Windows, encrypt the drives by using industry-standardBitLockerencryption technology. For Linux, encrypt the disks by using thedm-cryptsubsystem. The encryption process integrates with Azure Key Vault so you can control and manage the disk encryption keys. For more information, seeAzure Disk Encryption for virtual machines and virtual machine scale sets.
Regional availability
You can use Azure to deliver scaled services to reach your customers and partners wherever they are. Checking the regional availability of a service beforehand can help you make the right decision for your workload and customer needs. To check availability, seeManaged disks available by regionandAzure Storage available by region.
Managed disks are available in all Azure regions that have Azure Premium SSD and Standard SSD offerings. Azure Ultra Disk Storage is offered in several availability zones. Verify the regional availability when you plan mission-critical, top-tier workloads that require Ultra Disk Storage.
Hot and cool Blob Storage, Data Lake Storage Gen2, and Azure Files are available in all Azure regions. Archival blob storage, premium file shares, and premium block Blob Storage are limited to certain regions.
To learn more about Azure global infrastructure, seeAzure geographies. ConsultProducts available by regionfor storage options available in each Azure region.
Data residency and compliance requirements
Legal and contractual requirements that are related to data storage often apply to your workloads. These requirements depend on the location of your organization, the jurisdiction of the physical assets that host your data stores, and your business sector. Consider data classification, data location, and the respective responsibilities for data protection under the shared responsibility model. For more information, seeEnabling Data Residency and Data Protection in Microsoft Azure Regions.
Part of your compliance efforts might include controlling where your database resources are physically located. Azure regions are organized into groups called geographies. An Azure geography ensures that data residency, sovereignty, compliance, and resiliency requirements are honored within geographical and political boundaries. If your workloads are subject to data sovereignty or other compliance requirements, deploy your storage resources to regions that are in a compliant Azure geography. For more information, seeAzure geographies.
Next step
Review your data options
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources