Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Automatic scaling in Azure App Service
Article
2025-03-31
4 contributors
In this article
Note
Automatic scaling is available for all app types: Windows and Linux (deploy as code and container). Automatic scaling isn't supported for deployment slot traffic.
Automatic scaling is a new scale-out option that automatically handles scaling decisions for your web apps and App Service plans. It's different from the preexistingAzure autoscale, which lets you define scaling rules based on schedules and resources. With automatic scaling, you can adjust scaling settings to improve your app's performance and avoid cold start issues. The platform prewarms instances to act as a buffer when scaling out, ensuring smooth performance transitions. You're charged per second for every instance, including prewarmed instances.
The following table compares scale-out and scale-in options available on App Service:
How automatic scaling works
You enable automatic scaling for an App Service plan and configure a range of instances for each of the web apps. As your web app starts receiving HTTP traffic, App Service monitors the load and adds instances. Resources might be shared when multiple web apps within an App Service plan are required to scale out simultaneously.
Here are a few scenarios where you should scale out automatically:
You don't want to set up autoscale rules based on resource metrics.
You want your web apps within the same App Service plan to scale differently and independently of each other.
Your web app is connected to a database or legacy system, which might not scale as fast as the web app. Scaling automatically allows you to set the maximum number of instances your App Service plan can scale to. This setting helps the web app to not overwhelm the back end.
Enable automatic scaling
TheMaximum burstlevel represents the highest number of instances that your App Service plan can increase to based on incoming HTTP requests. For Premium v2 & v3 plans, you can setMaximum burstto up to 30 instances. TheMaximum burstnumber must be equal to or greater than the number of workers specified for the App Service plan.
Azure portal
Azure CLI
To enable automatic scaling, go to the web app's left menu and selectscale-out (App Service Plan). SelectAutomatic, update theMaximum burstvalue, and select theSavebutton.

The following command turns on automatic scaling for your existing App Service plan and web apps within this plan:
az appservice plan update --name <APP_SERVICE_PLAN> --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --elastic-scale true --max-elastic-worker-count <YOUR_MAX_BURST>
az appservice plan update --name <APP_SERVICE_PLAN> --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --elastic-scale true --max-elastic-worker-count <YOUR_MAX_BURST>
Note
If you receive the error message "Operation returned an invalid status 'Bad Request'," try using a different resource group or create a new one.
Set the minimum number of web app instances
The app-level settingAlways ready instancesspecifies the minimum number of instances. If the load exceeds the minimum number set inAlways ready instances, additional instances are added, up to the specifiedMaximum burstvalue for the App Service plan.
Azure portal
Azure CLI
To set the minimum number of web app instances, go to the web app's left menu and selectscale-out (App Service Plan). Update theAlways ready instancesvalue, and select theSavebutton.

az webapp update --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --name <APP_NAME> --minimum-elastic-instance-count <ALWAYS_READY_COUNT>
az webapp update --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --name <APP_NAME> --minimum-elastic-instance-count <ALWAYS_READY_COUNT>
Set the maximum number of web app instances
TheMaximum scale limitvalue sets the maximum number of instances a web app can scale to. TheMaximum scale limitis helpful when a downstream component like a database has limited throughput. The per-app maximum can be between 1 and theMaximum burst.
Azure portal
Azure CLI
To set the maximum number of web app instances, go to the web app's left menu and selectscale-out (App Service Plan). SelectEnforce scale-out limit, update theMaximum scale limit, and select theSavebutton.

Currently, you can't change theMaximum scale limitin the Azure CLI. You must instead use the Azure portal.
Update prewarmed instances
Theprewarmed instancesetting provides warmed instances as a buffer during HTTP scale and activation events. Prewarmed instances continue to buffer until the maximum scale-out limit is reached. The defaultprewarmed instancecount is 1 and, for most scenarios, this value should remain as 1.
Azure portal
Azure CLI
You can't change the prewarmed instance setting in the portal. You must instead use the Azure CLI.
You can modify the number of prewarmed instances for an app by using the Azure CLI.
az webapp update --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --name <APP_NAME> --prewarmed-instance-count <PREWARMED_COUNT>
az webapp update --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --name <APP_NAME> --prewarmed-instance-count <PREWARMED_COUNT>
Disable automatic scaling
Azure portal
Azure CLI
To disable automatic scaling, go to the web app's left menu and selectscale-out (App Service Plan). SelectManualand select theSavebutton.

The following command disables automatic scaling for your existing App Service plan and all web apps within this plan:
az appservice plan update --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --name <APP_SERVICE_PLAN> --elastic-scale false
az appservice plan update --resource-group <RESOURCE_GROUP> --name <APP_SERVICE_PLAN> --elastic-scale false
Frequently asked questions
Does automatic scaling support Azure Functions apps?
No, you can only have Azure App Service web apps in the App Service plan in which you wish to enable automatic scaling. For Azure Functions apps, we recommend that you use theAzure Functions Premium planinstead.
Caution
Automatic scaling is disabled when App Service web apps and Azure Functions apps are in the same App Service plan.
How does automatic scaling work behind the scenes?
Applications set to automatically scale are continuously monitored, with worker health assessments occurring at least once every few seconds. If the system detects increased load on the application, health checks become more frequent. If worker health deteriorates and requests slow down, other instances are requested. The speed at which instances are added varies based on the individual application's load pattern and startup time. Applications with brief startup times and intermittent bursts of load might see one virtual machine added every few seconds to a minute.
Once the load subsides, the platform initiates a review for potential scaling in. This process typically begins about 5-10 minutes after the load stops increasing. During scaling in, instances are removed at a maximum rate of one every few seconds to a minute.
If multiple web applications are deployed within the same App Service plan, the platform tries to allocate resources across available instances. This allocation is based on the load of each individual web application.
How do I get billed for prewarmed instances?
To understand how you're billed for prewarmed instances, consider this scenario: Let's say your web app has five instances that are always ready, along with one prewarmed instance set as the default.
When your web app is idle and not receiving any HTTP requests, it runs with the five always-ready instances. During this time, you aren't billed for a prewarmed instance because the always-ready instances aren't being used, and thus no prewarmed instance is allocated.
However, as soon as your web app starts receiving HTTP requests and the five always-ready instances become active, a prewarmed instance is allocated. Billing for it begins at this point.
If the rate of HTTP requests keeps increasing and App Service decides to scale beyond the initial five instances, it starts utilizing the prewarmed instance. This means that when there are six active instances, a seventh instance is immediately provisioned to fill the prewarmed buffer.
This process of scaling and prewarming continues until the maximum instance count for the app is reached. It's important to note that no instances are prewarmed or activated beyond the maximum instance count.
Why doesAppServiceHTTPLogshave log entries similar to/admin/host/pingwith a 404 status?
AppServiceHTTPLogs
/admin/host/ping
App Service automatic scaling periodically checks the/admin/host/pingendpoint along with other health check mechanisms that are inherent to the platform. Occasionally, due to existing platform configurations, these pings might return 404 errors. However, it's important to note that these 404 errors shouldn't affect your app's availability or scaling performance.
/admin/host/ping
If your web app returns a 5xx status, these endpoint pings might result in intermittent restarts, though this scenario is uncommon. Ensure that your web app doesn't return a 5xx status at this endpoint. These ping endpoints can't be customized.
How do I track the number of scaled-out instances during the automatic scaling event?
TheAutomaticScalingInstanceCountmetric reports the number of virtual machines on which the app is running, including the prewarmed instance if it's deployed. This metric can also be used to track the maximum number of instances your web app scaled out during an automatic scaling event. This metric is available only for the apps that haveAutomatic Scalingenabled.
AutomaticScalingInstanceCount
How does ARR Affinity affect automatic scaling?
Azure App Service uses Application Request Routing cookies known as an ARR Affinity. ARR Affinity cookies restrict scaling because they send requests only to servers associated with the cookie, rather than any available instance. For apps that store state, it's better to scale up (increase resources on a single instance). For stateless apps, scaling out (adding more instances) offers more flexibility and scalability. ARR Affinity cookies are enabled by default on App Service. Depending on your application needs, you might choose to disable ARR affinity cookies when using automatic scaling.
To disable ARR Affinity cookies: select your App Service app, and underSettings, selectConfiguration. Next select theGeneral settingstab. UnderARR affinity, selectOffand then select theSavebutton.

Related content
Get started with autoscale in Azure
Configure the PremiumV3 tier for App Service
Scale up server capacity
Learn about high-density hosting
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources