Microsoft identity platform documentation
Use the Microsoft identity platform and our open-source authentication libraries to sign in users with Microsoft Entra accounts, Microsoft personal accounts, and social accounts like Facebook and Google. Protect your web APIs and access protected APIs like Microsoft Graph to work with your users' and organization's data.
Overview
Concept
Concept
sample
What's new
Concept
Concept
Quickstart
Authentication and authorization for any app
Focus on documentation for the app you're building or extending with identity and access management (IAM) support by selecting its type.
A web app whose code is downloaded and run in the browser itself.
A traditional, or "classic," web app whose code runs on a server, returning page data for the browser to render.
A RESTful web service accessed by apps or other web APIs, typically to work with data served by the API.
Apps with a user interface (UI) whose code runs on a user's desktop, laptop, or notebook computer.
Apps with a UI whose code runs on a user's phone, tablet, or other mobile device.
An app or script without a UI that performs non-interactive tasks like server-to-server communication or scheduled jobs.
Get started
Quick access to guidance on adding core IAM features to your apps and best practices for keeping your apps secure and available.
Sign in users
Single-page web app (SPA)
Web app
Desktop app
Mobile app
Protect a web API
Configure an app to expose a web API
Build a protected web API
Call an API from a non-interactive app or script
Test and deploy apps
Build a test environment
Run integration tests
Build for security and resilience
Build Zero Trust-ready apps
Prevent an over-privileged app
Build auth resilience into your apps
Microsoft authentication libraries
The open-source Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) is built and supported by Microsoft. We recommend MSAL for any app that uses the Microsoft identity platform for authentication and authorization.
Authenticate partners and customers
Sign in users from partner organizations in a business-to-business (B2B) scenario or create custom sign-up and sign-in experiences for your customers in a business-to-customer (B2C) scenario.
External Identities documentation
Connect to Microsoft Graph
Programmatic access to organizational, user, and app data stored in Microsoft Entra ID. Call Microsoft Graph from your app to create and manage Microsoft Entra users and groups, get, and modify your users' data like their profiles, calendars, email, and more.
Microsoft Graph API documentation
Manage and market your apps
Make existing SaaS apps like Dropbox, Salesforce, and ServiceNow available to your organization's users, configure single sign-on (SSO), and manage security. Or, become an independent software vendor (ISV) by publishing your own SaaS app for use by *other* organizations that use Microsoft Entra ID.
App management documentation
Manage app users and their access
Automatically create user identities and their roles in your organization's SaaS apps. HR-driven provisioning, System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM), and more.
App user and role provisioning documentation