Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Cloud Shell?
Article
2024-04-11
18 contributors
In this article
Azure Cloud Shell is an interactive, authenticated, browser-accessible terminal for managing Azure
resources. It provides the flexibility of choosing the shell experience that best suits the way you
work, either Bash or PowerShell.
Cloud Shell runs on a temporary host provided on a per-session, per-user basis. Your Cloud Shell
session times out after 20 minutes without interactive activity. Cloud Shell persists your files in
your$HOMElocation using a 5-GB file share.
$HOME
Multiple access points
Cloud Shell is a flexible tool that can be used from:
portal.azure.com
shell.azure.com
Azure CLI documentation
Azure PowerShell documentation
Azure mobile app
Visual Studio Code Azure Account extension
Authenticated and configured Azure workstation
Microsoft manages Cloud Shell so you don't have to. Cloud Shell comes with popular command-line
tools and language support. Cloud Shell automatically securely authenticates for instant access to
your resources through the Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell cmdlets. See thelist of tools installedin Cloud Shell.
Cloud Shell offers an integrated graphical text editor so you can create and edit files for seamless
deployment through Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell. For more information, seeUsing the Azure Cloud Shell editor.
Security and compliance
Encryption at restAll Cloud Shell infrastructure is compliant with double encryption at rest by default. You don't
have to configure anything.
Encryption at rest
All Cloud Shell infrastructure is compliant with double encryption at rest by default. You don't
have to configure anything.
Shell permissionsYour user account has the permissions of a regular Linux user.
Shell permissions
Your user account has the permissions of a regular Linux user.
Pricing
Use of the machine hosting Cloud Shell is free. Cloud Shell requires a storage account to host the
mounted Azure Files share. Regular storage costs apply.
Next steps
Get started with Cloud Shell (Classic)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources