Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Joint Special Access Program (SAP) Implementation Guide (JSIG)
Article
2023-05-06
1 contributor
In this article
JSIG overview
Special Access Programs represent some of the US Department of Defense (DoD) most sensitive information that must be protected accordingly. Given the rapid increase in cybersecurity threats, DoD can no longer rely on physical isolation as a primary risk mitigation strategy. Instead, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)SP 800-37provides a common information security framework for the US federal government and its contractors to improve information security, strengthen risk management processes, and transform the traditional certification and accreditation process into a modern Risk Management Framework (RMF). TheDoDM 5205.07, Volume 1,Special Access Program (SAP) Security Manual: General Procedures, provides policy, guidance, and standards for the authorization of information systems and application of RMF within a DoD SAP.
The purpose of theJoint Special Access Program (SAP) Implementation Guide (JSIG)is to provide policy and guidance on the implementation of the RMF. JSIG serves as a technical supplement toNIST SP 800-53andCNSSI 1253. It is used in combination with the applicable volume of DoDM 5205.07 in the application of the RMF. JSIG provides standardized policies for cybersecurity and information assurance, procedures, and implementation guidance for use in the management of systems at all classification levels under the purview of the SAP Authorizing Official (AO). These policies and procedures adhere to applicable laws, executive orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance.
Azure and JSIG
Azure Government Secret and Azure Government Top Secret maintain JSIG Authorizations to Operate (ATO) at Protection Level 3 (PL3).
Azure Government Secretwas developed using the same principles and architecture as Azure commercial cloud. It enables fast access to sensitive, mission-critical information while maintaining the security and integrity of classified workloads. It is available from three dedicated regions located over 500 miles apart. Azure Government Secret operates on secure, native connections to classified networks with options forExpressRouteandExpressRoute Directfor private, resilient, high-bandwidth connectivity.
Azure Government Top Secretserves the national security mission and empowers leaders across the Intelligence Community (IC), Department of Defense (DoD), and Federal Civilian agencies to process national security workloads classified at the US Top Secret level. Azure regions for Top Secret classified data expand the ability of our national security customers to achieve greater agility, cost savings, and speed to innovation.
Applicability
Azure Government Secret
Azure Government Top Secret
Services in scope
For a list of Microsoft cloud services in scope for the JSIG ATO in Azure Government Secret or Azure Government Top Secret, contact your Microsoft account representative.
Attestation documents
Contact your Microsoft account representative for assistance.
Frequently asked questions
What Azure services are covered by the JSIG Authorization to Operate (ATO)?For a list of Microsoft online services in scope for the JSIG ATO in Azure Government Secret or Azure Government Top Secret, contact your Microsoft account representative.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Azure for US Government
Azure Government Secret
Azure Government Top Secret
DoDM 5205.07 Special Access Program (SAP) Security Manual, Volumes 1 - 4
DoD Instruction 8510.01DoD Risk Management Framework (RMF) for DoD Information Technology (IT)
DoD Joint Special Access Program (SAP) Implementation Guide (JSIG)
DoD SAP Program Manager's Handbook to the JSIG and RMF
NIST SP 800-30Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments
NIST SP 800-37Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy
NIST SP 800-39Managing Information Security Risk: Organization, Mission, and Information System View
NIST SP 800-53Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations
NIST SP 800-59Guideline for Identifying an Information System as a National Security System
CNSSI 1253Security Categorization and Control Selection for National Security Systems
Additional resources