Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Save costs for resources with reserved capacity - Azure Data Factory data flows
Article
2024-05-15
7 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Data FactoryAzure Synapse Analytics
Tip
Try outData Factory in Microsoft Fabric, an all-in-one analytics solution for enterprises.Microsoft Fabriccovers everything from data movement to data science, real-time analytics, business intelligence, and reporting. Learn how tostart a new trialfor free!
Save money with Azure Data Factory data flow costs by committing to a reservation for compute resources compared to pay-as-you-go prices. With reserved capacity, you make a commitment for ADF data flow usage for a period of one or three years to get a significant discount on the compute costs. To purchase reserved capacity, you need to specify the Azure region, compute type, core count quantity, and term.
You do not need to assign the reservation to a specific factory or integration runtime. Existing factories or newly deployed factories automatically get the benefit. By purchasing a reservation, you commit to usage for the data flow compute costs for a period of one or three years. As soon as you buy a reservation, the compute charges that match the reservation attributes are no longer charged at the pay-as-you go rates.
You can buyreserved capacityby choosing reservationsup front or with monthly payments. To buy reserved capacity:
To buy a reservation, you must have owner role or reservation purchaser role on an Azure subscription.
For Enterprise subscriptions,Add Reserved Instancesmust be enabled in theEA portal. Or, if that setting is disabled, you must be an EA Admin on the subscription. Reserved capacity.
For more information about how enterprise customers and Pay-As-You-Go customers are charged for reservation purchases, seeUnderstand Azure reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollmentandUnderstand Azure reservation usage for your Pay-As-You-Go subscription.
Note
Purchasing reserved capacity does not pre-allocate or reserve specific infrastructure resources (virtual machines or clusters) for your use.
Determine proper Azure IR sizes needed before purchase
The size of reservation should be based on the total amount of compute used by the existing or soon-to-be-deployed data flows using the same compute tier.
For example, let's suppose that you are executing a pipeline hourly using memory optimized with 32 cores. Further, let's supposed that you plan to deploy within the next month an additional pipeline that uses general purpose 64 cores. Also, let's suppose that you know that you will need these resources for at least 1 year. In this case, enter the number of cores needed for each compute type for 1 hour. In the Azure Portal, search for Reservations. Choose Data Factory > Data Flows, then enter 32 for memory optimized and 64 for general purpose.
Buy reserved capacity
Sign in to theAzure portal.
SelectAll services>Reservations.
SelectAddand then in thePurchase Reservationspane, selectADF Data Flowsto purchase a new reservation for ADF data flows.
Fill in the required fields and attributes you select qualify to get the reserved capacity discount. The actual number of data flows that get the discount depends on the scope and quantity selected.
Review the cost of the capacity reservation in theCostssection.
SelectPurchase.
SelectView this Reservationto see the status of your purchase.
Cancel, exchange, or refund reservations
You can cancel, exchange, or refund reservations with certain limitations. For more information, seeSelf-service exchanges and refunds for Azure Reservations.
Need help? Contact us
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Related content
To learn more about Azure Reservations, see the following articles:
Understand Azure Reservations discount
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources