Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Compare storage on Azure and AWS
Article
2025-01-07
17 contributors
In this article
The audience for this guide is organizations or individuals who are migrating from AWS to Azure or adopting a multicloud strategy. The goal of this guide is to help AWS architects understand the storage capabilities of Azure by comparing Azure services to AWS services.
S3/EBS/EFS and Azure Storage
On the AWS platform, cloud storage is typically deployed in three ways:
Simple Storage Service (S3). Basic object storage that makes data available through an API.
Simple Storage Service (S3). Basic object storage that makes data available through an API.
Elastic Block Store (EBS). Block-level storage that's typically intended for access by a single virtual machine (VM). You can attach it to multiple volumes by using specific storage classes and file systems.
Elastic Block Store (EBS). Block-level storage that's typically intended for access by a single virtual machine (VM). You can attach it to multiple volumes by using specific storage classes and file systems.
Shared storage. Various shared storage services that AWS provides, like Elastic File System (EFS) and the FSx family of managed file systems.
Shared storage. Various shared storage services that AWS provides, like Elastic File System (EFS) and the FSx family of managed file systems.
In Azure Storage, subscription-boundstorage accountsallow you to create and manage the following storage services:
Blob storagestores any type of text or binary data, such as a document, media file, or application installer. You can set Blob storage for private access or share contents publicly to the Internet. Blob storage serves the same purpose as both AWS S3 and EBS.
Blob storagestores any type of text or binary data, such as a document, media file, or application installer. You can set Blob storage for private access or share contents publicly to the Internet. Blob storage serves the same purpose as both AWS S3 and EBS.
Table storagestores structured datasets. Table storage is a NoSQL key-attribute data store that allows for rapid development and fast access to large quantities of data. Similar to AWS' SimpleDB and DynamoDB services.
Table storagestores structured datasets. Table storage is a NoSQL key-attribute data store that allows for rapid development and fast access to large quantities of data. Similar to AWS' SimpleDB and DynamoDB services.
Queue storageprovides messaging for workflow processing and for communication between components of cloud services.
Queue storageprovides messaging for workflow processing and for communication between components of cloud services.
File storageprovides shared storage for applications. It uses the standard Server Message Block (SMB) or Network File System (NFS) protocol. File storage is used in a way that's similar to how EFS or FSx for Windows File Server are used.
File storageprovides shared storage for applications. It uses the standard Server Message Block (SMB) or Network File System (NFS) protocol. File storage is used in a way that's similar to how EFS or FSx for Windows File Server are used.
Azure also provides other managed file systems, including Azure Managed Lustre, Azure NetApp Files, and Azure Native Qumulo. For more information, seeStorage comparison.
Glacier and Azure Storage
Azure Archive Blob Storageis comparable to AWS Glacier storage service. It's intended for rarely accessed data that is stored for at least 180 days and can tolerate several hours of retrieval latency.
For data that is infrequently accessed but must be available immediately when accessed,Azure Cool Blob Storage tierprovides cheaper storage than standard blob storage. This storage tier is comparable to AWS S3 - Infrequent Access storage service.
Object storage access control
In AWS, access to S3 is typically granted via either an Identity and Access Management (IAM) role or directly in the S3 bucket policy. Data plane network access is typically controlled via S3 bucket policies.
With Azure Blob Storage, a layered approach is used. The Azure Storage firewall is used to control data plane network access.
In Amazon S3, it's common to usepre-signed URLsto give time-limited permission access. In Azure Blob storage, you can achieve a similar result by using ashared access signature.
Regional redunandacy and replication for object storage
Organizations often want to protect their storage objects by using redundant copies. In both AWS and Azure, data is replicated in a particular region. On Azure, you control how data is replicated by using locally redundant storage (LRS) or zone-redundant storage (ZRS). If you use LRS, copies are stored in the same datacenter for cost or compliance reasons. ZRS is similar to AWS replication: it replicates data across availability zones within a region.
AWS customers often replicate their S3 buckets to another region by using cross-region replication. You can implement this type of replication in Azure by using Azure blob replication. Another option is to configure geo-redundant storage (GRS) or geo-zone-redundant storage (GZRS). GRS and GZRS synchronously replicate data to a secondary region without requiring a replication configuration. The data isn't accessible unless a planned or unplanned failover occurs.
Comparing block storage choices
Both platforms provide different types of disks to meet particular performance needs. Although the performance characteristics don't match exactly, the following table provides a generalized comparison. You should always perform testing to determine which storage configurations best suit your application. For higher-performing disks, on both AWS and Azure you need to match the storage performance of the VM with the provisioned disk type and configuration.
On Azure, you can configure many VM types for host caching. When host caching is enabled, cache storage is made available to the VM and can be configured for read-only or read/write mode. For some workloads, the cache can improve storage performance.
Storage comparison
Object storage
Virtual server disks
Shared files
Archiving and backup
Hybrid storage
Bulk data transfer
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Adam Cerini|
Director, Partner Technology Strategist
Other contributor:
Yuri Baijnath| Senior CSA Manager
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
See also
Microsoft Azure Storage Performance and Scalability Checklist
Azure Storage security guide
Best practices for using content delivery networks (CDNs)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources