Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Virtual Rooms overview
Article
2025-03-20
17 contributors
In this article
Virtual Rooms empower developers with essential security and control capabilities to build well-structured communication experiences such as virtual appointments and group communications. Developers can use virtual rooms to conduct voice, video, and PSTN calls. Security and controls in rooms can be classified as follows.
User access security and controls are applied to call participants, controlling who can join a call and which actions they can take during the call. For example, during a patient's virtual appointment with a doctor, only the authorized hospital staff and patients can join the call. Limiting participants preserves the patient privacy and the participants don't exceed their assigned roles and privileges to disrupt the ongoing call.
User access security and controls are applied to call participants, controlling who can join a call and which actions they can take during the call. For example, during a patient's virtual appointment with a doctor, only the authorized hospital staff and patients can join the call. Limiting participants preserves the patient privacy and the participants don't exceed their assigned roles and privileges to disrupt the ongoing call.
Room-level security and controls are applied at the call level to control when the call can be conducted and which capabilities are available during the call. For example, students are only authorized to join a classroom call during the allocated time but a PSTN caller can't join the same classroom call.
Room-level security and controls are applied at the call level to control when the call can be conducted and which capabilities are available during the call. For example, students are only authorized to join a classroom call during the allocated time but a PSTN caller can't join the same classroom call.
High level capabilities supported in Virtual Rooms
* Some exceptions apply. The full list of supportedCall Automation capabilitiesare listed in this document.
When to use Virtual Rooms
Following table shows when to use Virtual Rooms.
* If the solution requires interoperability between Teams and Azure Communication Services, useTeams interoperability calls
How to conduct calls in Virtual Rooms
At a high level, to conduct calls in a Virtual Rooms you need to create and manage rooms. The following table describes how to enable participants to join calls and execute in-call operations from the Calling SDK on client-side and server-side.
Developers use Virtual Rooms SDK, Calling client SDK, and Call Automation SDK to secure their calls and to trigger in-call client-side/server-side operations.
Calling client SDKprovides the full list of client-side in-call operations and explains how to use them.
Managing Virtual Rooms calls from the server-side using Call Automation Server SDK
Call Automation SDK empowers developers to manage Virtual Rooms calls from the server-side and execute in-call operations. Call Automation capabilities are being progressively enabled in Virtual Rooms calls. The following table shows the current status of these capabilities. Developers manage and control Call Automation capabilities from the server-side, which operate at a higher level than a call participant's privileges. So Call Automation capabilities aren't controlled through user roles and permissions.
* Currently inpublic preview.
This illustration shows the concepts for managing and joining the rooms.

Server initiated PSTN Dialout using Call Automation Server SDK
Developers can activate/deactivate the ability to dial-out to a PSTN participant by setting the Room-specific pstnDialoutEnabled flag. Once the developer sets pstnDialoutEnabled=TRUE for a Room, developers can dial-out to a PSTN participant from the server-side using Call Automation, without needing any client-side participation.
For example, a patient might request interpretation service for their upcoming virtual appointment with their doctor. In most cases, the phone number to the interpretation service is determined dynamically through a backend process. This server-side PSTN dial-out capability allows developers to determine the target phone number, initiate the call and add it to patient's virtual appointment call, without requiring any client-side actions.
Follow these steps to add a PSTN number to a room call using Call Automation SDK:
Create a room with pstnDialoutEnabled flag set toTrue
True
Participants start a room call
Use Call Automation SDK to connect to a room call using a room ID
Use Call Automation SDK to dial-out to a PSTN number
PSTN user accepts and joins a room call
Managing Virtual Rooms calls from client-side Calling SDKs
Use theCalling SDKsto join the room call. Room calls can be joined using the Web, iOS, or Android Calling SDKs. You can find quick start samples for joining room callshere.
Rooms can also be accessed using theAzure Communication Services UI Library. The UI Library enables developers to add a call client that is Rooms-enabled into their application with only a couple lines of code.
Client initiated PSTN Dial-out using Calling client SDK
Developers can allow/disallow the ability for call participants to dial-out to a PSTN participant, by setting the Room specific pstnDialoutEnabled flag. Once the developer sets pstnDialoutEnabled=TRUE for a Room, the call participants with the Presenter role can dial-out to a PSTN participant from their calling client. The following steps are used to add a PSTN number to a room call using Calling Client SDK.
Create a room with pstnDialoutEnabled flag set to True
Participants start a room call
A participant with Presenter role adds PSTN number into a call
PSTN user accepts and joins a room call
Virtual Rooms API/SDKs
Rooms are created and managed via rooms APIs or SDKs. Use the rooms API/SDKs in your server application forroomoperations:
room
Create
Modify
Delete
Set and update the list of participants
Set and modify the Room validity
Assign roles and permissions to users
Predefined participant roles and permissions in Virtual Rooms calls

Room participants can be assigned one of the following roles:Presenter,Collaborator,Attendee, andConsumer.
The following table provides detailed capabilities mapped to the roles. At a high level,Presenterrole has full control,Collaboratorhas audio, video, and screenshare capabilities,Attendeehas audio and video capabilities, whileConsumercan only receive audio, video, and screen sharing.
Note:A PSTN call participant is not a part of Room roster, so a user role is not assigned to them. They capabilities are limited to mute/unmute themselves on the local device.
* Only available on the web calling SDK.
Event handling
Voice and video calling eventspublished viaEvent Gridare annotated with room call information.
CallStartedis published when a room call starts.
CallEndedis published when a room call ends.
CallParticipantAddedis published when a new participant joins a room call.
CallParticipantRemovedis published when a participant drops from a room call.
Deprecated Features
An earlier public preview version of Rooms API supported two configurations for Rooms roster control, as follows:
AnInvite Onlyroom that only allowed invited users to join the Rooms call.
AnOpen Roomthat was less secure. In open rooms configuration, all Azure Communication Services users were able to join a call without being explicitly invited through the Room roster.
TheOpen Roomconcept is now deprecated. Going forward,Invite Onlyrooms are the only supported Room type.
Known Limitations
Azure Communication Services Call Automation capabilities currently don't support Rooms call.
Next steps:
Use theQuickStart to create, manage, and join a room.
Learn how tojoin a room call.
Learn how tomanage a room call.
Review theNetwork requirements for media and signaling.
Analyze your Rooms data, see:Rooms Logs.
Learn how to use the Log Analytics workspace, see:Log Analytics Tutorial.
Create your own queries in Log Analytics, see:Get Started Queries.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources