Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Platform-supported migration of IaaS resources from classic to Azure Resource Manager
Article
2025-03-17
2 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs
Important
Today, about 90% of IaaS VMs are usingAzure Resource Manager. As of February 28, 2020, classic VMs have been deprecated and will be fully retired on September 6, 2023.Learn moreabout this deprecation andhow it affects you.
This article provides overview on platform-supported migration tool, how to migrate resources from the Azure Service Manager (ASM) also known as Classic to Resource Manager (ARM) deployment models and details how to connect resources from the two deployment models that coexist in your subscription by using virtual network site-to-site gateways. You can read more aboutAzure Resource Manager features and benefits.
ASM supports two different compute products, Azure Virtual Machines (classic) also known as IaaS VMs &Azure Cloud Services (classic)also known as PaaS VMs or Web/Worker Roles. This document only talks about migrating Azure Virtual Machines (classic).
Goal for migration
Resource Manager enables deploying complex applications through templates, configures virtual machines by using VM extensions, and incorporates access management and tagging. Azure Resource Manager includes scalable, parallel deployment for virtual machines into availability sets. The new deployment model also provides lifecycle management of compute, network, and storage independently. Finally, there’s a focus on enabling security by default with the enforcement of virtual machines in a virtual network.
Almost all the features from the classic deployment model are supported for compute, network, and storage under Azure Resource Manager. To benefit from the new capabilities in Azure Resource Manager, you can migrate existing deployments from the Classic deployment model.
Supported resources & configurations for migration
Supported resources for migration
Virtual Machines (Cloud Service with VMs)
Cloud Services (with Web/Worker Roles)
Availability Sets
Storage Accounts
Virtual Networks
VPN Gateways
Express Route Gateways(in the same subscription as Virtual Network only)
Network Security Groups
Route Tables
Reserved IPs
Supported configurations for migration
These classic IaaS resources are supported during migration
Supported scopes of migration
There are four different ways to complete migration of compute, network, and storage resources:
Migration of virtual machines (NOT in a virtual network)
Migration of virtual machines (in a virtual network)
Migration of storage accounts
Migration of unattached resources
Migration of virtual machines (NOT in a virtual network)
In the Resource Manager deployment model, security is enforced for your applications by default. All VMs need to be in a virtual network in the Resource Manager model. The Azure platform restarts (Stop,Deallocate, andStart) the VMs as part of the migration. You have two options for the virtual networks that the Virtual Machines will be migrated to:
Stop
Deallocate
Start
You can request the platform to create a new virtual network and migrate the virtual machine into the new virtual network.
You can migrate the virtual machine into an existing virtual network in Resource Manager.
Note
In this migration scope, both the management-plane operations and the data-plane operations may not be allowed for a period of time during the migration.
Migration of virtual machines (in a virtual network)
For most VM configurations, only the metadata is migrating between the Classic and Resource Manager deployment models. The underlying VMs are running on the same hardware, in the same network, and with the same storage. The management-plane operations may not be allowed for a certain period of time during the migration. However, the data plane continues to work. That is, your applications running on top of VMs (classic) do not incur downtime during the migration.
The following configurations are not currently supported. If support is added in the future, some VMs in this configuration might incur downtime (go through stop, deallocate, and restart VM operations).
You have more than one availability set in a single cloud service.
You have one or more availability sets and VMs that are not in an availability set in a single cloud service.
Note
In this migration scope, the management plane may not be allowed for a period of time during the migration. For certain configurations as described earlier, data-plane downtime occurs.
Migration of storage accounts
To allow seamless migration, you can deploy Resource Manager VMs in a classic storage account. With this capability, compute and network resources can and should be migrated independently of storage accounts. Once you migrate over your Virtual Machines and Virtual Network, you need to migrate over your storage accounts to complete the migration process.
If your storage account does not have any associated disks or Virtual Machines data and only has blobs, files, tables, and queues then the migration to Azure Resource Manager can be done as a standalone migration without dependencies.
Note
The Resource Manager deployment model doesn't have the concept of Classic images and disks. When the storage account is migrated, Classic images and disks are no longer visible in the Azure portal, but the backing VHDs remain in the storage account.
The following screenshots show how to upgrade a Classic storage account to an Azure Resource Manager storage account using Azure portal:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Navigate to your classic storage account.
In theSettingssection, clickMigrate to ARM.
Click onValidateto determine migration feasibility.
If validation passes, click onPrepareto create a migrated storage account.
Typeyesto confirm migration and clickCommitto finish the migration.
Migration of unattached resources
Storage Accounts with no associated disks or Virtual Machines data may be migrated independently.
Network Security Groups, Route Tables & Reserved IPs that are not attached to any Virtual Machines and Virtual Networks can also be migrated independently.
Unsupported features and configurations
Some features and configurations are not currently supported; the following sections describe our recommendations around them.
Unsupported features
The following features are not currently supported. You can optionally remove these settings, migrate the VMs, and then re-enable the settings in the Resource Manager deployment model.
Unsupported configurations
The following configurations are not currently supported.
Next steps
Technical deep dive on platform-supported migration from classic to Azure Resource Manager
Planning for migration of IaaS resources from classic to Azure Resource Manager
Use PowerShell to migrate IaaS resources from classic to Azure Resource Manager
Use CLI to migrate IaaS resources from classic to Azure Resource Manager
Community tools for assisting with migration of IaaS resources from classic to Azure Resource Manager
Review most common migration errors
Review the most frequently asked questions about migrating IaaS resources from classic to Azure Resource Manager
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources