Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Analyze and visualize monitoring data
Article
2025-03-19
3 contributors
In this article
This article describes built-in features for visualizing and analyzing collected data in Azure Monitor. Visualizations like charts and graphs can help you analyze your monitoring data to drill down on issues and identify patterns. You can create custom visualizations to meet the requirements of different users in your organization.
Built-in analysis features
This table describes Azure Monitor features that provide analysis of collected data without any configuration.
Built-in visualization tools
Azure workbooks
Azure workbooksprovide a flexible canvas for data analysis and the creation of rich visual reports. You can use workbooks to tap into the most complete set of data sources from across Azure and combine them into unified interactive experiences. They're especially useful to prepare end-to-end monitoring views across multiple Azure resources. Insights use prebuilt workbooks to present you with critical health and performance information for a particular service. You can access a gallery of workbooks on theWorkbookstab in Azure Monitor, create custom workbooks, or leverage Azure GitHub community templates to meet the requirements of your different users.

Azure dashboards
Azure dashboardsare useful in providing a "single pane of glass" of your Azure infrastructure and services. While a workbook provides richer functionality, a dashboard can combine Azure Monitor data with data from other Azure services.

Here's a video about how to create dashboards:
Grafana
Grafanais an open platform that excels in operational dashboards. It's useful for:
Detecting, isolating, and triaging operational incidents.
Combining visualizations of Azure and non-Azure data sources. These sources include on-premises, third-party tools, and data stores in other clouds.
Grafana has popular plug-ins and dashboard templates for application performance monitoring (APM) tools such as Dynatrace, New Relic, and AppDynamics. You can use these resources to visualize Azure platform data alongside other metrics from higher in the stack collected by other tools. It also has AWS CloudWatch and GCP BigQuery plug-ins for multicloud monitoring in a single pane of glass.
Grafana allows you to leverage the extensive flexibility included for combining data queries, query results, and performing open-ended client-side data processing, as well as using open-source community dashboards.
All versions of Grafana include theAzure Monitor datasource plug-into visualize your Azure Monitor metrics and logs.
Azure Managed Grafanaalso optimizes this experience for Azure-native data stores such as Azure Monitor and Azure Data Explorer. In this way, you can easily connect to any resource in your subscription and view all resulting telemetry in a familiar Grafana dashboard. It also supports pinning charts from Azure Monitor metrics and logs to Grafana dashboards. Grafana includes out-of-the-box dashboards for Azure resources.Create your first Azure Managed Grafana workspaceto get started.
Theout-of-the-box Grafana Azure alerts dashboardallows you to view and consume Azure monitor alerts for Azure Monitor, your Azure datasources, and Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus.
For more information on define Azure Monitor alerts, seeCreate a new alert rule.
For Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus, define your alerts usingPrometheus alert rulesthat are created as part of aPrometheus rule group, applied on the Azure Monitor workspace.

Power BI
Power BIis useful for creating business-centric dashboards and reports, along with reports that analyze long-term KPI (Key Performance Indicator) trends. You canimport the results of a log queryinto a Power BI dataset, which allows you to take advantage of features such as combining data from different sources and sharing reports on the web and mobile devices.

Choose the right visualization tool
We recommend using Azure Managed Grafana for data visualizations and dashboards in cloud-native scenarios, such as Kubernetes and Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), as well as multicloud, open source software, and third-party integrations. For other Azure scenarios, including Azure hybrid environments with Azure Arc, we recommend Azure workbooks.
Cloud native environments monitored with Prometheus and CNCF tools
Multi-cloud and multi-platform environments
Multi-tenancy and portability support
Interoperability with open-source and third-party tools
Sharing dashboards outside of the Azure portal
Azure managed hybrid and edge environments
Integrations with Azure actions and automation
Creating custom reports based on Azure Monitor insights
Benefits and use cases
Other options
Some Azure Monitor partners provide visualization functionality. An Azure Monitor partner might provide out-of-the-box visualizations to save you time, although these solutions might have an extra cost.
You can also build your own custom websites and applications using metric and log data in Azure Monitor using the REST API. The REST API gives you flexibility in UI, visualization, interactivity, and features.
Next steps
Deploy Azure Monitor: Alerts and automated actions
Optimize costs in Azure Monitor
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources