Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Pipeline container jobs - Sprint 140 Update
Article
2022-11-28
9 contributors
In this article
In theSprint 140 Updateof Azure DevOps Services, you'll find a new way to customize build dependencies to your specific requirements with the introduction ofcontainer jobsin Azure Pipelines. In Wiki you can nowadd videos,rename, andinsert a wiki table of contents from the format pane.
Check out theFeatureslist below for more.
Features
Azure Pipelines:
Control specific build dependencies using container jobs
Enable code coverage in .NET Core task
Azure Boards:
Leverage restructured Process REST APIs
Azure Artifacts:
Simplify authentication using the new cross-platform Credential Provider for NuGet
Store artifacts using Universal Packages
Compress symbols when publishing to a file share
Wiki:
Embed a video in wiki
Rename a wiki
Insert a wiki table of contents from the format pane
Administration:
Manage your personal access tokens with filtering and paging
Next steps
Note
These features will be rolling out over the next two to three weeks.
Read about the new features below and head over to Azure DevOps Services to try them for yourself.
Go to Azure DevOps Services
Azure Pipelines
Control specific build dependencies using container jobs
By default, jobs run on the host machine where the agent is installed. Container jobs, using the lightweight abstraction over the host operating system that containers provide, let you isolate your tools and dependencies inside a container instead. The agent will launch an instance of your specified container, then run steps inside it. You can select the exact versions of operating systems, tools, and dependencies that your build requires. See theContainer jobsdocumentation for more information.
Enable code coverage in .NET Core task
The.NET Coretask in Azure Pipelines now supports code coverage so that you can get a better handle of unit test coverage in your .NET Core projects. The "test" command of the .NET Core task can be passed the arguments--collect "Code coverage"to enable code coverage collection. Support is currently scoped to .NET Core projects targeting the Windows platform.
--collect "Code coverage"
Azure Boards
Leverage restructured Process REST APIs
In the REST API version 5.1 (Preview) we combined several Inherited Process related APIs into a single domain. This will make it easier for you to find and consume the right endpoints. See theProcess Behaviorsdocumentation for more information. We have also created afew samplesusing the C# client libraries.
Azure Artifacts
Simplify authentication using the new cross-platform Credential Provider for NuGet
Interacting with authenticated NuGet feeds just got a lot better. The new .NET Core-basedAzure Artifacts Credential Providerworks with msbuild, dotnet, and nuget(.exe) on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Any time you want to use packages from an Azure Artifacts feed, the Credential Provider will automatically acquire and store a token on behalf of the NuGet client you're using. You no longer need to manually store and manage a token in a configuration file.
To get the new provider, head toGitHuband follow the instructions for your client and platform.
Store artifacts using Universal Packages
Universal Packages are a new kind of package supported by Azure Artifacts. They provide a simple mechanism to store a collection of files in a feed with a package name and package version. The command line tooling is designed to efficiently transfer content from the client and service.
Consider using Universal Packages to store artifacts such as:
Configuration scripts and templates (e.g. ARM templates)
Database snapshots for integration testing
Machine learning training data and models
Developer tools and SDKs
3D models and textures
Build outputs
Jump over to ourquickstart guide to get started with Universal Packages.
Compress symbols when publishing to a file share
We have updated theIndex & Publish Symbols taskto support compressing symbols when they are published to a file share.

As a reminder, you can alsopublish symbols to Azure DevOps Servicesinstead of having to configure and manage a file server.
Wiki
Embed a video in wiki
Now you can embed videos in a wiki page from online services such as Microsoft Stream and YouTube. You can add the embedded video URL using the following syntax:
::: video
> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/7DbslbKsQSk]
:::
::: video
> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/7DbslbKsQSk]
:::

This feature was prioritized based on a suggestion.
Rename a wiki
Now you can rename your wiki in the wiki user interface and using REST APIs. From theMoremenu, clickRename wikito give your wiki a memorable name. This feature was prioritized based on asuggestion.

Insert a wiki table of contents from the format pane
Last sprint we shipped the ability tocreate table of contentsin wiki pages. You can now insert table of contents by clicking the appropriate button in the format pane when editing page.

Administration
Manage your personal access tokens with filtering and paging
As you've noticed with the new navigation in Azure DevOps, we're focused on bringing a more consistent experience across the service. We've taken this opportunity to help you better manage your personal access tokens (PATs), especially if you have several of them. Some of the new features include filter and paging controls when viewing all your PATs, a cleaner experience when creating a new PAT with grouping and descriptions for scopes, and the ability to edit and extend the expiration of existing PATs.

How to provide feedback
We would love to hear what you think about these features. Use the feedback menu to report a problem or provide a suggestion.

You can also get advice and your questions answered by the community onStack Overflow.
Thanks,
Biju Venugopal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources