Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor overview
Article
2025-03-13
3 contributors
In this article
Azure Monitor is a comprehensive monitoring solution for collecting, analyzing, and responding to monitoring data from your cloud and on-premises environments. You can use Azure Monitor to maximize the availability and performance of your applications and services. It helps you understand how your applications are performing and allows you to manually and programmatically respond to system events.
Azure Monitor collects and aggregates the data from every layer and component of your system across multiple Azure and non-Azure subscriptions and tenants. It stores it in a common data platform for consumption by a common set of tools that can correlate, analyze, visualize, and/or respond to the data. You can also integrate other Microsoft and non-Microsoft tools.

This diagram shows an abstracted view of the monitoring process. A more detailed breakdown of the Azure Monitor architecture is shown in the followingHigh level architecturesection.
High-level architecture
Azure Monitor can monitor these types of resources in Azure, other clouds, or on-premises:
Applications
Virtual machines
Guest operating systems
Containers including Prometheus metrics
Databases
Security events in combination with Azure Sentinel
Networking events and health in combination with Network Watcher
Custom sources that use the APIs to get data into Azure Monitor
You can also export monitoring data from Azure Monitor into other systems so you can:
Integrate with other third-party and open-source monitoring and visualization tools
Integrate with ticketing and other ITSM systems
If you're a System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) user, Azure Monitor now includes Azure MonitorSCOM Managed Instance (SCOM MI). Operations Manager MI is a cloud-hosted version of Operations Manager and allows you to move your on-premises Operations Manager installation to Azure.
The following diagram shows a high-level architecture view of Azure Monitor.

Note
Click on the diagram to see a more detailed expanded version showing a larger breakdown of data sources and data collection methods.
The diagram depicts the Azure Monitor system components:
Data sourcesare the types of resources being monitored.
Data sourcesare the types of resources being monitored.
The data iscollected and routedto the data platform. Clicking on the diagram shows these options, which are also called out in detail later in this article.
The data iscollected and routedto the data platform. Clicking on the diagram shows these options, which are also called out in detail later in this article.
Thedata platformstores the collected monitoring data. Azure Monitor's core data platform has stores for metrics, logs, traces, and changes. System Center Operations Manager MI uses its own database hosted in SQL Managed Instance.
Thedata platformstores the collected monitoring data. Azure Monitor's core data platform has stores for metrics, logs, traces, and changes. System Center Operations Manager MI uses its own database hosted in SQL Managed Instance.
Theconsumptionsection shows the components that use data from the data platform.Azure Monitor's core consumption methods include tools to provideinsights,visualize, andanalyzedata. The visualization tools build on the analysis tools and the insights build on top of both the visualization and analysis tools.There are additional mechanisms to help yourespondto incoming monitoring data.
Theconsumptionsection shows the components that use data from the data platform.
Azure Monitor's core consumption methods include tools to provideinsights,visualize, andanalyzedata. The visualization tools build on the analysis tools and the insights build on top of both the visualization and analysis tools.
There are additional mechanisms to help yourespondto incoming monitoring data.
TheSCOM MIpath uses the traditional Operations Manager console that System Center Operations Manager customers are already familiar with.
TheSCOM MIpath uses the traditional Operations Manager console that System Center Operations Manager customers are already familiar with.
Interoperability options are shown in theintegratesection. Not all services integrate at all levels. SCOM MI only integrates with Power BI.
Interoperability options are shown in theintegratesection. Not all services integrate at all levels. SCOM MI only integrates with Power BI.
Data sources
Azure Monitor can collectdata from multiple sources.
The following diagram shows an expanded version of the data source types that Azure Monitor can gather monitoring data from.

Note
Click on the diagram to see a larger version of the data sources diagram in context.
You can integrate application, infrastructure, and custom data source monitoring data from outside Azure, including from on-premises, and non-Microsoft clouds.
Azure Monitor collects these types of data:
For detailed information about each of the data sources, seedata sources.
SCOM MI (like on premises SCOM) collects only IaaS Workload and Operating System sources.
Data collection and routing
Azure Monitor collects and routes monitoring data using a few different mechanisms depending on the data being routed and the destination. Much like a road system improved over the years, not all roads lead to all locations. Some are legacy, some new, and some are better to take than others given how Azure Monitor has evolved over time. For more information, seedata sources.

Note
Click on the diagram to see a larger version of the data collection in context.
A common way to route monitoring data to other non-Microsoft tools is usingEvent hubs. See more in theIntegratesection.
SCOM MI (like on-premises SCOM) uses an agent to collect data, which it sends to a management server running in a SCOM MI on Azure.
For detailed information about data collection, seedata collection.
Data platform
Azure Monitor stores data in data stores for each of the three pillars of observability, plus an additional one:
metrics
logs
distributed traces
changes
Each store is optimized for specific types of data and monitoring scenarios.

Note
Select the preceding diagram to see the Data Platform in the context of the whole of Azure Monitor.
Distributed tracing is a technique used to trace requests as they travel through a distributed system. It allows you to see the path of a request as it travels through different services and components. It helps you to identify performance bottlenecks and troubleshoot issues in a distributed system.
For less expensive, long-term archival of monitoring data for auditing or compliance purposes, you can export toAzure Storage.
SCOM MI is similar to SCOM on-premises. It stores its information in an SQL Database, but uses SQL Managed Instance because it's in Azure.
Consumption
The following sections outline methods and services that consume monitoring data from the Azure Monitor data platform.
All areas in theconsumptionsection of the diagram have a user interface that appears in the Azure portal.
The top part of the consumption section applies to Azure Monitor core only. SCOM MI uses the traditional Ops Console running in the cloud. It can also send monitoring data to Power BI for visualization.
The Azure portal
The Azure portal is a web-based, unified console that provides an alternative to command-line tools. With the Azure portal, you can manage your Azure subscription using a graphical user interface. You can build, manage, and monitor everything from simple web apps to complex cloud deployments in the portal. TheMonitorsection of the Azure portal provides a visual interface that gives you access to the data collected for Azure resources and an easy way to access the tools, insights, and visualizations in Azure Monitor.

Insights
Some Azure resource providers have curated visualizations that provide a customized monitoring experience and require minimal configuration. Insights are large, scalable, curated visualizations.

The following table describes some of the larger insights:
For more information, see thelist of insights and curated visualizations in the Azure Monitor Insights overview.
Visualize

Visualizations such as charts and tables are effective tools for summarizing monitoring data and presenting it to different audiences. Azure Monitor has its own features for visualizing monitoring data and uses other Azure services for publishing it to different audiences. Power BI and Grafana aren't officially part of the Azure Monitor product, but they're a core integration and part of the Azure Monitor story.
For a more extensive discussion of the recommended visualization tools and when to use them, seeAnalyze and visualize monitoring data
Analyze
The Azure portal contains built-in tools that allow you to analyze monitoring data.

Respond
An effective monitoring solution proactively responds to critical events, without the need for an individual or team to notice the issue. The response could be a text or email to an administrator, or an automated process that attempts to correct an error condition.

Artificial Intelligence for IT Operations (AIOps)can improve service quality and reliability by using machine learning to process and automatically act on data you collect from applications, services, and IT resources into Azure Monitor. It automates data-driven tasks, predicts capacity usage, identifies performance issues, and detects anomalies across applications, services, and IT resources. These features simplify IT monitoring and operations without requiring machine learning expertise.
Azure Monitor Alertsnotify you of critical conditions and can take corrective action. Alert rules can be based on metric or log data.
Metric alert rules provide near-real-time alerts based on collected metrics.
Log search alert rules based on logs allow for complex logic across data from multiple sources.
Alert rules useaction groups, which can perform actions such as sending email or SMS notifications. Action groups can send notifications using webhooks to trigger external processes or to integrate with your IT service management tools. Action groups, actions, and sets of recipients can be shared across multiple rules.

SCOM MI currently uses its own separate traditional System Center Operations Manager alerting mechanism in the Ops Console.
Autoscaleallows you to dynamically control the number of resources running to handle the load on your application. You can create rules that use Azure Monitor metrics to determine when to automatically add resources when the load increases or remove resources that are sitting idle. You can specify a minimum and maximum number of instances, and the logic for when to increase or decrease resources to save money and to increase performance.

Azure Logic Appsis also an option. For more information, see the followingIntegratesection.
Integrate
You may need to integrate Azure Monitor with other systems or to build custom solutions that use your monitoring data. These Azure services work with Azure Monitor to provide integration capabilities. The following diagram and table show only a few of the possible integrations.

More integrations not shown in the diagram that may be of interest.
Note
There are many more third party companies that integrate with Azure and Azure Monitor at various levels. Use your favorite search engine to locate them.
Frequently asked questions
This section provides answers to common questions.
What's the difference between Azure Monitor, Log Analytics, and Application Insights?
In September 2018, Microsoft combined Azure Monitor, Log Analytics, and Application Insights into a single service to provide powerful end-to-end monitoring of your applications and the components they rely on. Features in Log Analytics and Application Insights haven't changed, although some features are rebranded to Azure Monitor to better reflect their new scope. The log data engine and query language of Log Analytics is now referred to as Azure Monitor Logs.
How much does Azure Monitor cost?
The cost of Azure Monitor is based on your usage of different features and is primarily determined by the amount of data you collect. For more information, see the following articles:
Azure Monitor cost and usage
View Azure Monitor usage and charges
Cost optimization in Azure Monitor
Is there an on-premises version of Azure Monitor?
No. Azure Monitor is a scalable cloud service that processes and stores large amounts of data, although Azure Monitor can monitor resources that are on-premises and in other clouds.
Does Azure Monitor integrate with System Center Operations Manager?
You can connect your existing System Center Operations Manager management group to Azure Monitor to collect data from agents into Azure Monitor Logs. This capability allows you to use log queries and solutions to analyze data collected from agents. You can also configure existing System Center Operations Manager agents to send data directly to Azure Monitor. SeeConnect Operations Manager to Azure Monitor.
Microsoft also offers System Center Operations Manager Managed Instance (SCOM MI) as an option to migrate a traditional System Center Operations Manager setup into the cloud with minimal changes. For more information, seeAbout Azure Monitor SCOM Managed Instance.
Next steps
Getting started with Azure Monitor
Sources of monitoring data for Azure Monitor
Data collection in Azure Monitor
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources