Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Best practices for monitoring virtual machines in Azure Monitor
Article
2025-03-19
2 contributors
In this article
This article provides architectural best practices for monitoring virtual machines and their client workloads using Azure Monitor. The guidance is based on the five pillars of architecture excellence described inAzure Well-Architected Framework.
Reliability
In the cloud, we acknowledge that failures happen. Instead of trying to prevent failures altogether, the goal is to minimize the effects of a single failing component. Use the following information to monitor your virtual machines and their client workloads for failure.
Design checklist
Create availability alert rules for Azure VMs.
Create agent heartbeat alert rule to verify agent health.
Configure data collection and alerting for monitoring reliability of client workflows.
Configuration recommendations
Security
Security is one of the most important aspects of any architecture. Azure Monitor provides features to employ both the principle of least privilege and defense-in-depth. Use the following information to monitor the security of your virtual machines.
While Azure Monitor can collect security events from your VMs, it isn't intended to be used for security monitoring. Azure includes multiple services such asMicrosoft Defender for CloudandMicrosoft Sentinelthat together provide a complete security monitoring solution. SeeSecurity monitoringfor a comparison of these services.
Microsoft secures connections to public endpoints with end-to-end encryption. If you require a private endpoint, useAzure private linkto allow resources to connect to your Log Analytics workspace through authorized private networks. You can also use Private link to force workspace data ingestion through ExpressRoute or a VPN.
Instructions:Design your Azure Private Link setup
Cost optimization
Cost optimization refers to ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. You can significantly reduce your cost for Azure Monitor by understanding your different configuration options and opportunities to reduce the amount of data that it collects. SeeAzure Monitor cost and usageto understand the different ways that Azure Monitor charges and how to view your monthly bill.
Note
SeeOptimize costs in Azure Monitorfor cost optimization recommendations across all features of Azure Monitor.
Design checklist
*8 Migrate from Log Analytics agent to Azure Monitor agent for granular data filtering.
Filter data that you don't require from agents.
Determine whether you'll use VM insights and what data to collect.
Reduce polling frequency of performance counters.
Ensure that VMs aren't sending duplicate data.
Use Log Analytics workspace insights to analyze billable costs and identify cost saving opportunities.
Migrate your SCOM environment to Azure Monitor SCOM Managed Instance.
Configuration recommendations
Operational excellence
Operational excellence refers to operations processes required keep a service running reliably in production. Use the following information to minimize the operational requirements for monitoring of your virtual machines.
Design checklist
Migrate from legacy agents to Azure Monitor agent.
Use Azure Arc to monitor your VMs outside of Azure.
Use Azure Policy to deploy agents and assign data collection rules.
Establish a strategy for structure of data collection rules.
Consider migrating System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) client management packs to Azure Monitor.
Configuration recommendations
Performance efficiency
Performance efficiency is the ability of your workload to scale to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. Use the following information to monitor the performance of your virtual machines.
Design checklist
Configure data collection and alerting for monitoring performance of client workflows.
Configuration recommendations
Next step
Get complete guidance on configuring monitoring for virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources