Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Monitor for SAP solutions?
Article
2024-08-21
7 contributors
In this article
When you have critical SAP applications and business processes that rely on Azure resources, you might want to monitor those resources for availability, performance, and operation. Azure Monitor for SAP solutions is an Azure-native monitoring product for SAP landscapes that run on Azure. It uses specific parts of theAzure Monitorinfrastructure.
You can use Azure Monitor for SAP solutions with bothSAP on Azure virtual machines (VMs)andSAP on Azure Large Instances.
What can you monitor?
You can use Azure Monitor for SAP solutions to collect data from Azure infrastructure and databases in one central location. Then, you can visually correlate the data for faster troubleshooting.
To monitor components of an SAP landscape, add the correspondingprovider. These components include Azure VMs, high-availability (HA) clusters, SAP HANA databases, and SAP NetWeaver. For more information, seeQuickstart: Deploy Azure Monitor for SAP solutions in Azure portal.
Azure Monitor for SAP solutions uses theAzure Monitorcapabilities ofLog Analyticsandworkbooks. With it, you can:
Createcustom visualizationsby editing the default that Azure Monitor for SAP solutions provides.
Writecustom queries.
Createcustom alertsby using Log Analytics workspaces.
Take advantage of theflexible retention periodin Azure Monitor Logs and Log Analytics.
Connect monitoring data with your ticketing system.
What data is collected?
Azure Monitor for SAP solutions doesn't collect Azure Monitor metrics or resource log data, like some other Azure resources do. Instead, it sends custom logs directly to the Azure Monitor Logs system. There, you can use the built-in features of Log Analytics.
Data collection in Azure Monitor for SAP solutions depends on the providers that you configure. The following data is collected for each provider.
HA Pacemaker cluster data
Node, resource, and SBD status
Pacemaker location constraints
Quorum votes and ring status
Also see themetrics specificationforha_cluster_exporter.
ha_cluster_exporter
SAP HANA data
CPU, memory, disk, and network use
HANA system replication
HANA backup
HANA host status
Index server and name server roles
Database growth
Top tables
File system use
Microsoft SQL Server data
CPU, memory, and disk use
Host name, SQL instance name, and SAP system ID
Batch requests, compilations, and page life expectancy over time
Top 10 most expensive SQL statements over time
Top 12 largest tables in the SAP system
Problems recorded in the SQL Server error log
Blocking processes and SQL wait statistics over time
OS (Linux) data
CPU use, fork count, running processes, and blocked processes
Memory use and distribution among used, cached, and buffered
Swap use, paging, and swap rate
File system usage, along with number of bytes read and written per block device
Read/write latency per block device
Ongoing I/O count and persistent memory read/write bytes
Network packets in/out and network bytes in/out
SAP NetWeaver data
SAP system and application server availability, including instance process availability of:DispatcherICMGatewayMessage serverEnqueue serverIGS Watchdog
Dispatcher
ICM
Gateway
Message server
Enqueue server
IGS Watchdog
Work process usage statistics and trends
Enqueue lock statistics and trends
Queue usage statistics and trends
SMON metrics (/SDF/SMON)
SWNC workload, memory, transaction, user, and RFC usage (St03n)
Short dumps (ST22)
Object lock (SM12)
Failed updates (SM13)
System log analysis (SM21)
Batch job statistics (SM37)
Outbound queues (SMQ1)
Inbound queues (SMQ2)
Transactional RFC (SM59)
STMS change transport system metrics (STMS)
IBM Db2 data
Database availability
Number of connections, logical reads, and physical reads
Waits and current locks
Top 20 runtimes and executions
What is the architecture?
The following diagram shows, at a high level, how Azure Monitor for SAP solutions collects data from the SAP HANA database. The architecture is the same if SAP HANA is deployed on Azure VMs or Azure Large Instances.

Diagram of the Azure Monitor for SAP solutions architecture. The customer connects to the Azure Monitor for SAP solutions resource through the Azure portal. A managed resource group contains Log Analytics, Azure Functions, Azure Key Vault, and an Azure Storage account. The Azure function connects to the providers. Providers include SAP NetWeaver (ABAP and JAVA), SAP HANA, Microsoft SQL Server, IBM Db2, Pacemaker clusters, and Linux OS.

Important points about the architecture include:
You can monitor multiple instances of a component type across multiple SAP systems (SIDs) within a virtual network by using a single resource of Azure Monitor for SAP solutions. For example, you can monitor multiple HANA databases, HA clusters, Microsoft SQL Server instances, and SAP NetWeaver systems of multiple SIDs.
The architecture diagram shows the SAP HANA provider as an example. You can configure multiple providers for corresponding components to collect data from those components. Examples include HANA database, HA cluster, Microsoft SQL Server instance, and SAP NetWeaver.
The key components of the architecture are:
The Azure portal, where you access Azure Monitor for SAP solutions.
The Azure Monitor for SAP solutions resource, where you view monitoring data.
The managed resource group, which is deployed automatically as part of the Azure Monitor for SAP solutions resource's deployment. Inside the managed resource group, resources like these help collect data:AnAzure Functions resourcehosts the monitoring code. This logic collects data from the source systems and transfers the data to the monitoring framework.AnAzure Key Vault resourceholds the SAP HANA database credentials and stores information about providers.ALog Analytics workspaceis the destination for storing data. Optionally, you can choose to use an existing workspace in the same subscription as your Azure Monitor for SAP solutions resource at deployment.Astorage accountis associated with the Azure Functions resource. It's used to manage triggers and executions of logging functions.
AnAzure Functions resourcehosts the monitoring code. This logic collects data from the source systems and transfers the data to the monitoring framework.
AnAzure Key Vault resourceholds the SAP HANA database credentials and stores information about providers.
ALog Analytics workspaceis the destination for storing data. Optionally, you can choose to use an existing workspace in the same subscription as your Azure Monitor for SAP solutions resource at deployment.
Astorage accountis associated with the Azure Functions resource. It's used to manage triggers and executions of logging functions.
Azure Monitor workbooksprovide customizable visualization of the data in Log Analytics. To automatically refresh your workbooks or visualizations, pin the items to the Azure dashboard. The maximum refresh frequency is every 30 minutes.
You can also use Kusto Query Language (KQL) torun log queriesagainst the raw tables inside the Log Analytics workspace.
How do you analyze logs?
Azure Monitor for SAP solutions doesn't support resource logs or activity logs. For a list of the tables that Azure Monitor Logs uses for querying in Log Analytics, seethe data reference for monitoring SAP on Azure.
How do you make Kusto queries?
When you selectLogsfrom theAzure Monitor for SAP solutionsmenu, Log Analytics opens with the query scope set to the current instance of Azure Monitor for SAP solutions. Log queries include only data from that resource. To run a query that includes data from other accounts or data from other Azure services, selectLogsfrom theAzure Monitormenu. For more information, seeLog query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics.
You can use Kusto queries to help you monitor your Azure Monitor for SAP solutions resources. The following sample query gives you data from a custom log for a specified time range. You can view the list of custom tables by expanding theCustom Logssection. You can specify the time range and the number of rows. In this example, you get five rows of data for your selected time range:
Custom_log_table_name
| take 5
Custom_log_table_name
| take 5
How do you get alerts?
Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. You can then identify and address problems in your system before your customers notice them.
You can configure alerts in Azure Monitor for SAP solutions from the Azure portal. For more information, seeConfigure alerts in Azure Monitor for SAP solutions with the Azure portal.
How can you create Azure Monitor for SAP solutions resources?
You can deploy Azure Monitor for SAP solutions and configure providers by usingthe Azure portalorAzure PowerShell.
What is the pricing?
Azure Monitor for SAP solutions is a free product. There's no license fee.
You're responsible for paying the cost of the underlying components in the managed resource group. You're also responsible for consumption costs associated with data use and retention. For more information, see:
Azure Functions pricing
Azure Key Vault pricing
Azure storage account pricing
Azure Log Analytics and alerts pricing
Next steps
For a list of custom logs relevant to Azure Monitor for SAP solutions and information on related data types, seeData reference for Azure Monitor for SAP solutions.
For information on providers available for Azure Monitor for SAP solutions, seeAzure Monitor for SAP solutions providers.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources