Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Database for MariaDB?
Article
2022-06-24
1 contributor
In this article
Important
Azure Database for MariaDB is on the retirement path. We strongly recommend that you migrate to Azure Database for MySQL. For more information about migrating to Azure Database for MySQL, seeWhat's happening to Azure Database for MariaDB?.
Azure Database for MariaDB is a relational database service in the Microsoft cloud. Azure Database for MariaDB is based on theMariaDB community edition(available under the GPLv2 license) database engine, version 10.2 and 10.3.
Azure Database for MariaDB delivers:
Built-in high availability with no additional cost.
Predictable performance, using inclusive pay-as-you-go pricing.
Scaling as needed within seconds.
Secured protection of sensitive data at rest and in motion.
Automatic backups and point-in-time-restore for up to 35 days.
Enterprise-grade security and compliance.
These capabilities require almost no administration. They're provided at no additional cost. Azure Database for MariaDB can help you rapidly develop your app and accelerate your time to market. You don't have to allocate precious time and resources to managing virtual machines and infrastructure. You can also continue to develop your application by using the open-source tools and platform of your choice. Deliver with the speed and efficiency your business demands, all without learning new skills.
To learn about core concepts and features in Azure Database for MariaDB, including performance, scalability, and manageability, see these quickstarts:
Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server by using the Azure portal
Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server by using the Azure CLI
Adjust performance and scale within seconds
The Azure Database for MariaDB service offers several service tiers: Basic, General Purpose, and Memory Optimized. Each tier offers different performance and capabilities to support lightweight to heavyweight database workloads. You can build your first app on a small database for a few dollars a month, and then adjust the scale to meet the needs of your solution. Dynamic scalability helps your database transparently respond to rapidly changing resource requirements. You pay only for the resources you need, and only when you need them. SeePricing tiersfor details.
Monitoring and alerting
How do you decide when to scale up or down? You can use the built-in performance monitoring and alerting features of Azure Database for MariaDB, combined with the performance ratings based on vCores. By using these tools, you can quickly assess the effect of scaling vCores up or down based on your current or projected performance needs. SeeAlertsfor details.
Keep your app and business running
Azure's industry-leading 99.99% availability SLA is powered by a global network of Microsoft-managed datacenters. The network helps keep your app running 24/7. You benefit from the built-in security, fault tolerance, and data protection in Azure Database for MariaDB. With Azure Database for MariaDB, you can use point-in-time restore to recover a server to an earlier state, as far back as 35 days.
Secure your data
Azure database services have a tradition of data security that Azure Database for MariaDB upholds. Azure Database for MariaDB offers features that limit access, protect data at rest and in motion, and help you monitor activity. Visit theAzure Trust Centerfor information about Azure's platform security. For more information about Azure Database for MariaDB security features, see thesecurity overview.
Contacts
You can send any questions or suggestions you have about working with Azure Database for MariaDB to theAzure Database for MariaDB Team(not a technical support alias).
You can also use the following points of contact:
To contact Azure Support,open a support requestin the Azure portal.
To fix an issue with your account,open a support requestin the Azure portal.
To provide feedback or to request new features, create an entry in theAzure Feedback Forums.
Next steps
Now that you've read an introduction to Azure Database for MariaDB, you're ready to:
See thepricingpage for cost comparisons and calculators.
Get started bycreating your first server.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources