Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Using Managed identities for Azure with Service Fabric
Article
2024-08-22
9 contributors
In this article
A common challenge when building cloud applications is how to securely manage the credentials in your code for authenticating to various services without saving them locally on a developer workstation or in source control.Managed identities for Azuresolve this problem for all your resources in Microsoft Entra ID by providing them with automatically managed identities within Microsoft Entra ID. You can use a service's identity to authenticate to any service that supports Microsoft Entra authentication, including Key Vault, without any credentials stored in your code.
Managed identities for Azure resourcesare free with Microsoft Entra ID for Azure subscriptions. There's no extra cost.
Note
Managed identities for Azureis the new name for the service formerly known as Managed Service Identity (MSI).
Concepts
Managed identities for Azure are based upon several key concepts:
Client ID- a unique identifier generated by Microsoft Entra ID that is tied to an application and service principal during its initial provisioning (also seeApplication (client) ID.)
Client ID- a unique identifier generated by Microsoft Entra ID that is tied to an application and service principal during its initial provisioning (also seeApplication (client) ID.)
Principal ID- the object ID of the service principal object for your managed identity that is used to grant role-based access to an Azure resource.
Principal ID- the object ID of the service principal object for your managed identity that is used to grant role-based access to an Azure resource.
Service Principal- a Microsoft Entra object, which represents the projection of a Microsoft Entra application in a given tenant (also seeservice principal.)
Service Principal- a Microsoft Entra object, which represents the projection of a Microsoft Entra application in a given tenant (also seeservice principal.)
There are two types of managed identities:
ASystem-assigned managed identityis enabled directly on an Azure service instance.  The lifecycle of a system-assigned identity is unique to the Azure service instance that it's enabled on.
Auser-assigned managed identityis created as a standalone Azure resource. The identity can be assigned to one or more Azure service instances and is managed separately from the lifecycles of those instances.
To further understand the difference between managed identity types, seeHow do managed identities for Azure resources work?.
Supported scenarios for Service Fabric applications
Managed identities for Service Fabric are only supported in Azure-deployed Service Fabric clusters, and only for applications deployed as Azure resources. An application not deployed as an Azure resource can't be assigned an identity. Conceptually speaking, support for managed identities in an Azure Service Fabric cluster consists of two phases:
Assign one or more managed identities to the application resource; an application may be assigned a single system-assigned identity, and/or up to 32 user-assigned identities, respectively.
Assign one or more managed identities to the application resource; an application may be assigned a single system-assigned identity, and/or up to 32 user-assigned identities, respectively.
Within the application's definition, map one of the identities assigned to the application to any individual service comprising the application.
Within the application's definition, map one of the identities assigned to the application to any individual service comprising the application.
The system-assigned identity of an application is unique to that application; a user-assigned identity is a standalone resource, which may be assigned to multiple applications. Within an application, a single identity (whether system-assigned or user-assigned) can be assigned to multiple services of the application, but each individual service can only be assigned one identity. Lastly, a service must be assigned an identity explicitly to have access to this feature. In effect, the mapping of an application's identities to its constituent services allows for in-application isolation—a service may only use the identity mapped to it.
The following scenarios are supported for this feature:
Deploy a new application with one or more services and one or more assigned identities
Deploy a new application with one or more services and one or more assigned identities
Assign one or more managed identities to an existing (Azure-deployed) application in order to access Azure resources
Assign one or more managed identities to an existing (Azure-deployed) application in order to access Azure resources
The following scenarios are unsupported or not recommended. These actions may not be blocked, but can lead to outages in your applications:
Removing or changing the identities assigned to an application. If you need to make changes, submit separate deployments to first add a new identity assignment, and then to remove a previously assigned one. Removal of an identity from an existing application can have undesirable effects, including leaving your application in a non-upgradeable state. It's safe to delete the application altogether if the removal of an identity is necessary. Deleting the application deletes any system-assigned identity associated with the application and removes all associations with any user-assigned identities assigned to the application.
Removing or changing the identities assigned to an application. If you need to make changes, submit separate deployments to first add a new identity assignment, and then to remove a previously assigned one. Removal of an identity from an existing application can have undesirable effects, including leaving your application in a non-upgradeable state. It's safe to delete the application altogether if the removal of an identity is necessary. Deleting the application deletes any system-assigned identity associated with the application and removes all associations with any user-assigned identities assigned to the application.
Service Fabric doesn't support managed identities in the deprecatedAzureServiceTokenProvider. Instead, use managed identities in Service Fabric by using theAzure Identity SDK
Service Fabric doesn't support managed identities in the deprecatedAzureServiceTokenProvider. Instead, use managed identities in Service Fabric by using theAzure Identity SDK
Next steps
Deploy a new Azure Service Fabric cluster with managed identity support
Enable managed identity support in an existing Azure Service Fabric cluster
Deploy an Azure Service Fabric application with a system-assigned managed identity
Deploy an Azure Service Fabric application with a user-assigned managed identity
Use the managed identity of a Service Fabric application from service code
Grant an Azure Service Fabric application access to other Azure resources
Declaring and using application secrets as KeyVaultReferences
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources