Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Billing accounts and scopes in the Azure portal
Article
2025-02-06
8 contributors
In this article
A billing account is created when you sign up to use Azure. You use your billing account to manage your invoices, payments, and track costs. You can have access to multiple billing accounts. For example, if you signed up for Azure for your personal projects. You could also have access through your organization's Enterprise Agreement or Microsoft Customer Agreement. For each of these scenarios, you would have a separate billing account.
Azure portal supports the following type of billing accounts:
Microsoft Online Services Program: A billing account for a Microsoft Online Services Program is created when you sign up for Azure through the Azure website. For example, when you sign up for anAzure Free Account,account with pay-as-you-go ratesor as aVisual Studio subscriber.A new billing account for a Microsoft Online Services Program can have a maximum of five subscriptions. However, subscriptions transferred to the new billing account don't count against the limit.The ability to create other Microsoft Online Services Program subscriptions is determined on an individual basis according to your history with Azure.If you have difficulty finding a new subscriptionafter you create it, you might need to change the global subscription filter. For more information about changing the global subscription filter, seeCan't view subscription.
Microsoft Online Services Program: A billing account for a Microsoft Online Services Program is created when you sign up for Azure through the Azure website. For example, when you sign up for anAzure Free Account,account with pay-as-you-go ratesor as aVisual Studio subscriber.
A new billing account for a Microsoft Online Services Program can have a maximum of five subscriptions. However, subscriptions transferred to the new billing account don't count against the limit.
The ability to create other Microsoft Online Services Program subscriptions is determined on an individual basis according to your history with Azure.
If you have difficulty finding a new subscriptionafter you create it, you might need to change the global subscription filter. For more information about changing the global subscription filter, seeCan't view subscription.
Enterprise Agreement: A billing account for an Enterprise Agreement (EA) is created when your organization signs anEnterprise Agreementto use Azure. An EA enrollment can contain an unlimited number of EA accounts.An EA account has a subscription limit of 5000.Regardless of a subscription's state, it gets included in the limit. So, deleted and disabled subscriptions are included in the limit. If you need more subscriptions than the limit, create more EA accounts. Generally speaking, a subscription is a billing container.We recommend that you avoid creating multiple subscriptions to implement access boundaries. To separate resources with an access boundary, consider using a resource group. For more information about resource groups, seeManage Azure resource groups by using the Azure portal.
Enterprise Agreement: A billing account for an Enterprise Agreement (EA) is created when your organization signs anEnterprise Agreementto use Azure. An EA enrollment can contain an unlimited number of EA accounts.
An EA account has a subscription limit of 5000.Regardless of a subscription's state, it gets included in the limit. So, deleted and disabled subscriptions are included in the limit. If you need more subscriptions than the limit, create more EA accounts. Generally speaking, a subscription is a billing container.
We recommend that you avoid creating multiple subscriptions to implement access boundaries. To separate resources with an access boundary, consider using a resource group. For more information about resource groups, seeManage Azure resource groups by using the Azure portal.
Microsoft Customer Agreement: A billing account for a Microsoft Customer Agreement is created when your organization works with a Microsoft representative to sign a Microsoft Customer Agreement. Some customers in select regions, who sign up through the Azure website for anaccount with pay-as-you-go ratesor anAzure Free Accountmight have a billing account for a Microsoft Customer Agreement as well.You can have a maximum of five subscriptions in a Microsoft Customer Agreement for an individual. The ability to create more subscriptions is determined on an individual basis according to your history with Azure.A Microsoft Customer Agreement for an enterprise can have up to 5,000 subscriptions under it.
Microsoft Customer Agreement: A billing account for a Microsoft Customer Agreement is created when your organization works with a Microsoft representative to sign a Microsoft Customer Agreement. Some customers in select regions, who sign up through the Azure website for anaccount with pay-as-you-go ratesor anAzure Free Accountmight have a billing account for a Microsoft Customer Agreement as well.
You can have a maximum of five subscriptions in a Microsoft Customer Agreement for an individual. The ability to create more subscriptions is determined on an individual basis according to your history with Azure.
A Microsoft Customer Agreement for an enterprise can have up to 5,000 subscriptions under it.
Microsoft Partner Agreement: A billing account for a Microsoft Partner Agreement is created for Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) partners to manage their customers in the new commerce experience. Partners need to have at least one customer with anAzure planto manage their billing account in the Azure portal. For more information, seeGet started with your billing account for Microsoft Partner Agreement.
Microsoft Partner Agreement: A billing account for a Microsoft Partner Agreement is created for Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) partners to manage their customers in the new commerce experience. Partners need to have at least one customer with anAzure planto manage their billing account in the Azure portal. For more information, seeGet started with your billing account for Microsoft Partner Agreement.
To determine the type of your billing account, seeCheck the type of your billing account.
Scopes for billing accounts
A scope is a node within a billing account that you use to view and manage billing. It's where you manage billing data, payments, invoices, and conduct general account management.
Some scopes are created automatically. For example, when you sign up for Azure with a Microsoft Online Services Program agreement, a billing account is created for you. This billing account contains a subscription. The subscription is the scope where you manage billing data, payments, and invoices.
Other scopes are created manually. For example, when you have an Enterprise Agreement, you can create departments and accounts which are billing scopes.
For more information about scopes, seeUnderstand and work with scopes.
You might see a subscription created for an EA enrollment that appears in both the EA Account billing scope and also under the MOSP billing scope. Viewing it in both places is intended. For EA enrollment account owners, when a MOSP billing scope gets created, all of the subscriptions under the enrollment account are shown under the MOSP account. Although there's a single subscription, you can view it in both places.
If you don't have access to view or manage billing accounts, you probably don't have permission to access. You can ask your billing account administrator to grant you access. For more information, see the following articles:
Microsoft Online Services Program access
Microsoft Customer Agreement access
Enterprise Agreement access
Microsoft Online Services Program

Enterprise Agreement

Microsoft Customer Agreement

Microsoft Partner Agreement

Switch billing scope in the Azure portal
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Search forCost Management + Billing.
Search forCost Management + Billing.

In the overview page, selectSwitch scope.NoteYou will not see Switch scope if you only have access to one scope.
In the overview page, selectSwitch scope.

Note
You will not see Switch scope if you only have access to one scope.
To view details, select a scope.
To view details, select a scope.

Check the type of your account
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Search for and selectCost Management + Billing.
Search for and selectCost Management + Billing.

If you have access to just one billing scope, selectPropertiesfrom the left menu.TheTypevalue on thePropertiespane determines the type of your account. It can be Microsoft Online Subscription Program, Enterprise Agreement, Microsoft Customer Agreement, or Microsoft Partner Agreement. To learn more about the types of billing accounts, seeView your billing accounts in the Azure portal.If you have access to multiple billing scopes, selectBilling scopesfrom the left menu, and then check the type in theBilling account typecolumn.
If you have access to just one billing scope, selectPropertiesfrom the left menu.
TheTypevalue on thePropertiespane determines the type of your account. It can be Microsoft Online Subscription Program, Enterprise Agreement, Microsoft Customer Agreement, or Microsoft Partner Agreement. To learn more about the types of billing accounts, seeView your billing accounts in the Azure portal.

If you have access to multiple billing scopes, selectBilling scopesfrom the left menu, and then check the type in theBilling account typecolumn.

Need help? Contact us.
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Related content
Learn how to startanalyzing your costs.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources