Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is an ontology?
Article
2025-01-27
5 contributors
In this article
This article describes the concept of industry ontologies and how they can be used within the context of Azure Digital Twins.
The vocabulary of an Azure Digital Twins solution is defined usingmodels, which describe the types of entities that exist in your environment. Anontologyis a set of models that comprehensively describe a given domain, like manufacturing, building structures, IoT systems, smart cities, energy grids, web content, and more.
When you author a model set from scratch that is complete and describes a domain, you're creating your own ontology. Alternatively, sometimes modeling standards for an industry already exist, and it can be more effective to lean on that existing ontology instead of creating the ontology from scratch yourself.
The articles in this section explain more about creating ontologies and using pre-existing industry ontologies for your Azure Digital Twins scenarios, including what existing ontologies are available today, and the different strategies for turning industry standards into ontologies for use in Azure Digital Twins.
Summary of ontology strategies for Azure Digital Twins
Here are the main strategies for creating DTDL ontologies to use in Azure Digital Twins. Choose the one that works best for you, depending on how closely the existing materials for your industry already match your solution.
Using existing ontologies
Existing industry ontologies provide a great starting point for digital twin solutions. They encompass a set of domain-specific models and relationships between entities for designing, creating, and parsing a digital twin graph. Industry ontologies enable solution developers to begin a digital twin solution from a proven starting point, and focus on solving business problems.
Using these ontologies in your solutions can also set them up for more seamless integration between different partners and vendors, because ontologies can provide a common vocabulary across solutions.
Here are some other benefits to using industry-standard DTDL ontologies as schemas for your twin graphs:
Harmonization of software components, documentation, query libraries, and more
Reduced investment in conceptual modeling and system development
Easier data interoperability on a semantic level
Best practice reuse, rather than starting from scratch
Microsoft has created several open-source DTDL ontologies built on widely used industry standards. You canadopt these ontologiesout-of-the-box in your solutions, orextend the ontologieswith your own additions to customize your solutions. Because models in Azure Digital Twins are represented inDigital Twins Definition Language (DTDL), ontologies designed for Azure Digital Twins are written in DTDL.
If you have a set of models for your industry that's represented in a different standard industry format, such as RDF or OWL, you can use it as a starting point andconvert the models to DTDLin order to use them in Azure Digital Twins.
Authoring your own ontologies
If there's no existing industry ontology that meets your needs, you can always develop your own custom DTDL ontologies from scratch. These can be inspired by applicable industry standards, or any other information that's relevant to your business.
For information about designing individual models, including all the fields they contain and how to author them in DTDL, seeDTDL models.
Full model development path
No matter which strategy you choose for designing or integrating an ontology into Azure Digital Twins, you can follow the complete path below to guide you through creating and uploading your ontology as DTDL models.
Start by reviewing and understandingDTDL modeling in Azure Digital Twins.
Proceed with your chosen ontology strategy:adopt,convert,extend, orauthoryour models based on the needs of your solution and industry.
Validateyour models to verify they're working DTDL documents.
Upload your finished models to Azure Digital Twins, using theAPIsor a sample like theAzure Digital Twins model uploader.
Once your models have been uploaded to the service, you can...
Visualize the models in your ontology using themodel graphin Azure Digital Twins Explorer.
Manage them on an ongoing basis, including retrieving models in code, updating models, and deleting models, using the instructions inManage DTDL models.
Use the models to createdigital twins and a twin graph.
Next steps
Read more about the strategies of adopting, extending, and converting existing ontologies:
Adopting DTDL-based industry ontologies
Extending ontologies
Converting ontologies
Or, learn about how models are used to create digital twins:Digital twins and the twin graph.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources