Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Service Fabric support options
Article
2024-08-22
14 contributors
In this article
We have created a number of support request options to serve the needs of managing your Service Fabric clusters and application workloads, depending on the urgency of support needed and the severity of the issue.
Self help troubleshooting
This is the material that is referenced by Customer Support Services when a ticket is created, by Service Fabric Site Reliability Engineers responding to an incident, and by users when discovering resolutions to active system issues.
For a full list of self help troubleshooting content, seeService Fabric troubleshooting guides
Create an Azure support request
To report issues related to your Service Fabric cluster running on Azure, open a support ticketon the Azure portalorMicrosoft support portal.
Learn more about:
Azure support options.
Microsoft premier support.
Note
Clusters running on a bronze reliability tier or Single Node Cluster will allow you to run test workloads only. If you experience issues with a cluster running on bronze reliability or Single Node Cluster, the Microsoft support team will assist you in mitigating the issue, but will not perform a Root Cause Analysis. For more information, please refer tothe reliability characteristics of the cluster.
For more information about what is required for a production ready cluster, please refer to theproduction readiness checklist.

Create a support request for standalone Service Fabric clusters
To report issues related to Service Fabric clusters running on-premises or on other clouds, you may open a ticket for professional support on theMicrosoft support portal.
Learn more about:
Microsoft premier support.
Post a question to Microsoft Q&A
Get answers to Service Fabric questions directly from Microsoft engineers, Azure Most Valuable Professionals (MVPs), and members of our expert community.
Microsoft Q&Ais Azure's recommended source of community support.
If you can't find an answer to your problem by searching Microsoft Q&A, submit a new question. Be sure to post your question using theazure-service-fabrictag. Here are some Microsoft Q&A tips for writinghigh-quality questions.
Open a GitHub issue
Report Azure Service Fabric issues at theService Fabric GitHub. This repo is intended for reporting and tracking issues as well as making small feature requests related to Azure Service Fabric.Do not use this medium to report live-site issues.
Check the StackOverflow forum
Theazure-service-fabrictag onStackOverflowis used for asking general questions about how the platform works and how you may use it to accomplish certain tasks.
azure-service-fabric
Service Fabric community Q & A schedule
Join the community call on the following days to hear about new feature releases and key updates and get answers to the questions from the Service Fabric team.
Stay informed of updates and new releases
Learn about important product updates, roadmap, and announcements inAzure Updates.
For the latest releases and updates to the Service Fabric runtime and SDKs, seeService Fabric releases
Next steps
Supported Service Fabric versions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources