Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Comparison between Azure Front Door and Azure CDN services
Article
2025-01-27
7 contributors
In this article
Azure Front Door and Azure CDN are both Azure services that offer global content delivery with intelligent routing and caching capabilities at the application layer. Both services can be used to optimize and accelerate your applications by providing a globally distributed network of points of presence (POP) close to your users. Both services also offer various features to help you secure your applications from malicious attacks and to help you monitor your application's health and performance.

Note
To switch between tiers, you will need to recreate the Azure Front Door profile. You can use themigration capabilityto move your existing Azure Front Door profile to the new tier. For more information about upgrading from Standard to Premium, seeupgrade capability.
Important
Azure Front Door (classic) will be retired onMarch 31, 2027. To avoid any service disruption, it's important that youmigrate your Azure Front Door (classic) profilesto Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier by March 2027. For more information, seeAzure Front Door (classic) retirement.
Important
Azure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) will be retired onSeptember 30, 2027. To avoid any service disruption, it's important that youmigrate your Azure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) profilesto Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier by September 30, 2027. For more information, seeAzure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) retirement.
Azure CDN from Edgio was retired onJanuary 15, 2025. For more information, seeAzure CDN from Edgio retirement FAQ.
Service comparison
The following table provides a comparison between Azure Front Door and Azure CDN services.
Services on retirement path
The following table lists services that are on retirement path, frequently asked questions regarding retirement, and migration guidance.
Next steps
Learn how tocreate an Azure Front Door.
Learn how about theAzure Front Door architecture.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources