Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Tenancy in Microsoft Entra ID
Article
2025-03-13
15 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Entra ID organizes objects like users and apps into groups calledtenants. Tenants allow an administrator to set policies on the users within the organization and the apps that the organization owns to meet their security and operational policies.
Who can sign in to your app?
When it comes to developing apps, developers can choose to configure their app to be either single-tenant or multitenant during app registration.
Single-tenant apps are only available in the tenant they were registered in, also known as their home tenant.
Multitenant apps are available to users in both their home tenant and other tenants.
When you register an application, you can configure it to be single-tenant or multitenant by setting the audience as follows.
Best practices for multitenant apps
Building great multitenant apps can be challenging because of the number of different policies that IT administrators can set in their tenants. If you choose to build a multitenant app, follow these best practices:
Test your app in a tenant that has configuredConditional Access policies.
Follow the principle of least user access to ensure that your app only requests permissions it actually needs.
Provide appropriate names and descriptions for any permissions you expose as part of your app. This helps users and admins know what they're agreeing to when they attempt to use your app's APIs. For more information, see the best practices section in thepermissions guide.
Note
Multitenant applications can be deployed to the same national cloud instances, but not acrossAzure National Clouds.
Examples:
A multitenant application created in a commercial tenant can be added to other commercial tenants.
A multitenant application created in an Azure Government tenant can be added to other Azure Government tenants.
Next steps
For more information about tenancy in Microsoft Entra ID, see:
How to convert an app to be multitenant
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources