Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Stages of a blueprint deployment
Article
2023-09-15
4 contributors
In this article
Important
On July 11, 2026, Blueprints (Preview) will be deprecated. Migrate your existing blueprint definitions and assignments toTemplate SpecsandDeployment Stacks. Blueprint artifacts are to be converted to ARM JSON templates or Bicep files used to define deployment stacks. To learn how to author an artifact as an ARM resource, see:
Policy
RBAC
Deployments
When a blueprint gets deployed, a series of actions is taken by the Azure Blueprints service to
deploy the resources defined in the blueprint. This article provides details about what each step
involves.
Blueprint deployment is triggered by assigning a blueprint to a subscription orupdating an
existing assignment. During the deployment, Azure
Blueprints takes the following high-level steps:
Azure Blueprints granted owner rights
The blueprint assignment object is created
Optional - Azure Blueprints createssystem-assignedmanaged identity
The managed identity deploys blueprint artifacts
Azure Blueprints service andsystem-assignedmanaged identity rights are revoked
Azure Blueprints granted owner rights
The Azure Blueprints service principal is granted owner rights to the assigned subscription or
subscriptions when asystem-assigned managed
identitymanaged identity
is used. The granted role allows Azure Blueprints to create, and later revoke, thesystem-assignedmanaged identity. If using auser-assignedmanaged identity, the Azure
Blueprints service principal doesn't get and doesn't need owner rights on the subscription.
The rights are granted automatically if the assignment is done through the portal. However, if the
assignment is done through the REST API, granting the rights needs to be done with a separate API
call. The Azure Blueprints AppId isf71766dc-90d9-4b7d-bd9d-4499c4331c3f, but the service
principal varies by tenant. UseAzure Active Directory Graph APIand REST endpointservicePrincipalsto get the service
principal. Then, grant the Azure Blueprints theOwnerrole through thePortal,Azure CLI,Azure PowerShell,REST API, or anAzure Resource Manager template.
f71766dc-90d9-4b7d-bd9d-4499c4331c3f
The Azure Blueprints service doesn't directly deploy the resources.
The blueprint assignment object is created
A user, group, or service principal assigns a blueprint to a subscription. The assignment object
exists at the subscription level where the blueprint was assigned. Resources created by the
deployment aren't done in context of the deploying entity.
While creating the blueprint assignment, the type ofmanaged
identityis selected. The
default is asystem-assignedmanaged identity. Auser-assignedmanaged identity can be
chosen. When using auser-assignedmanaged identity, it must be defined and granted permissions
before the blueprint assignment is created. Both theOwnerandBlueprint Operatorbuilt-in roles have the necessaryblueprintAssignment/writepermission to create an assignment
that uses auser-assignedmanaged identity.
blueprintAssignment/write
Optional - Azure Blueprints creates system-assigned managed identity
Whensystem-assigned managed
identityis selected
during assignment, Azure Blueprints creates the identity and grants the managed identity theownerrole. If anexisting assignment is upgraded, Azure Blueprints uses
the previously created managed identity.
The managed identity related to the blueprint assignment is used to deploy or redeploy the resources
defined in the blueprint. This design avoids assignments inadvertently interfering with each other.
This design also supports theresource lockingfeature by controlling the
security of each deployed resource from the blueprint.
The managed identity deploys blueprint artifacts
The managed identity then triggers the Resource Manager deployments of the artifacts within the
blueprint in the definedsequencing order. The order can be adjusted to
ensure artifacts dependent on other artifacts are deployed in the correct order.
An access failure by a deployment is often the result of the level of access granted to the managed
identity. The Azure Blueprints service manages the security lifecycle of thesystem-assignedmanaged identity. However, the user is responsible for managing the rights and lifecycle of auser-assignedmanaged identity.
Blueprint service and system-assigned managed identity rights are revoked
Once the deployments are completed, Azure Blueprints revokes the rights of thesystem-assignedmanaged identity from the subscription. Then, the Azure Blueprints service revokes its rights from
the subscription. Rights removal prevents Azure Blueprints from becoming a permanent owner on a
subscription.
Next steps
Understand how to usestatic and dynamic parameters.
Learn to customize theblueprint sequencing order.
Find out how to make use ofblueprint resource locking.
Learn how toupdate existing assignments.
Resolve issues during the assignment of a blueprint withgeneral troubleshooting.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources