Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Databricks Runtime for Machine Learning
Article
2025-02-14
2 contributors
In this article
This article describes Databricks Runtime for Machine Learning and provides guidance for how to create a cluster that uses it.
What is Databricks Runtime for Machine Learning?
Databricks Runtime for Machine Learning (Databricks Runtime ML) automates the creation of a cluster with pre-built machine learning and deep learning infrastructure including the most common ML and DL libraries.
Libraries included in Databricks Runtime ML
Databricks Runtime ML includes a variety of popular ML libraries. The libraries are updated with each release to include new features and fixes.
Databricks has designated a subset of the supported libraries as top-tier libraries. For these libraries, Databricks provides a faster update cadence, updating to the latest package releases with each runtime release (barring dependency conflicts). Databricks also provides advanced support, testing, and embedded optimizations for top-tier libraries. Top-tier libraries are added or removed only with major releases.
For a full list of top-tier and other provided libraries, see therelease notesfor Databricks Runtime ML.
For information about how often libraries are updated and when libraries are deprecated, seeDatabricks Runtime ML maintenance policy.
You can install additional libraries to create a custom environment for your notebook or cluster.
To make a library available for all notebooks running on a cluster,create a cluster library. You can also use aninit scriptto install libraries on clusters upon creation.
To install a library that is available only to a specific notebook session, useNotebook-scoped Python libraries.
Set up compute resources for Databricks Runtime ML
The process for creating compute based on Databricks Runtime ML depends on whether your workspace is enabled for theDedicated group cluster Public Previewor not. Workspaces that are enabled for the preview have a newsimplified compute UI.
Create a cluster using Databricks Runtime ML
When you create a cluster, select a Databricks Runtime ML version from theDatabricks runtime versiondrop-down menu. Both CPU and GPU-enabled ML runtimes are available.

If youselect a cluster from the drop-down menu in the notebook, the Databricks Runtime version appears at the right of the cluster name:

If you select a GPU-enabled ML runtime, you are prompted to select a compatibleDriver typeandWorker type. Incompatible instance types are grayed out in the drop-down menu. GPU-enabled instance types are listed under theGPU acceleratedlabel. For information about creating Azure Databricks GPU clusters, seeGPU-enabled compute. Databricks Runtime ML includes GPU hardware drivers and NVIDIA libraries such as CUDA.
Create a new cluster with the new simplified compute UI
Use the steps in this sectiononlyif your workspace is enabled for the Dedicated group cluster preview.
To use the machine learning version of Databricks Runtime, select theMachine learningcheckbox.

For GPU-based compute, select a GPU-enabled instance type. For the complete list of supported GPU types, seeSupported instance types.
Photon and Databricks Runtime ML
When you create a CPU cluster running Databricks Runtime 15.2 ML or above, you can choose to enablePhoton. Photon improves performance for applications using Spark SQL, Spark DataFrames, feature engineering, GraphFrames, and xgboost4j. It is not expected to improve performance on applications using Spark RDDs, Pandas UDFs, and non-JVM languages such as Python. Thus, Python packages such as XGBoost, PyTorch, and TensorFlow will not see an improvement with Photon.
Spark RDD APIs andSpark MLlibhave limited compatibility with Photon. When processing large datasets using Spark RDD or Spark MLlib, you may experience Spark memory issues. SeeSpark memory issues.
Access mode for Databricks Runtime ML clusters
To access data in Unity Catalog on a cluster running Databricks Runtime ML, the access mode must be set toDedicated(formerly single user access mode).
When a compute resource hasDedicatedaccess, the resource can be assigned to a single user or a group. When assigned to a group (a group cluster), the user’s permissions automatically down-scopes to the group’s permissions, allowing the user to securely share the resource with other members of the group.
When using dedicated access mode, the following features are only available on Databricks Runtime 15.4 LTS ML and above:
Fine-grained access control.
Querying tables that were created using a DLT pipeline, includingstreaming tablesandmaterialized views.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources