Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is key phrase extraction in Azure AI Language?
Article
2025-02-21
5 contributors
In this article
Key phrase extraction is one of the features offered byAzure AI Language, a collection of machine learning and AI algorithms in the cloud for developing intelligent applications that involve written language. Use key phrase extraction to quickly identify the main concepts in text. For example, in the text "The food was delicious and the staff were wonderful.", key phrase extraction returns the main topics: "food" and "wonderful staff."
This documentation contains the following types of articles:
Quickstartsare getting-started instructions to guide you through making requests to the service.
How-to guidescontain instructions for using the service in more specific or customized ways.
Typical workflow
To use this feature, you submit data for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no added customization to the model used on your data.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Stream or store the response locally.
Stream or store the response locally.
Get started with Key phrase extraction
To use key phrase extraction, you submit raw unstructured text for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no additional customization to the model used on your data. There are two ways to use key phrase extraction:
Reference documentation and code samples
As you use this feature in your applications, see the following reference documentation and samples for Azure AI Language:
Responsible AI
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who use it, the people who are affected by it, and the environment in which it's deployed. Read thetransparency note for key phrase extractionto learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems. For more information, see the following articles:
Transparency note for Azure AI Language
Integration and responsible use
Data, privacy, and security
Next steps
There are two ways to get started using the entity linking feature:
Azure AI Foundryis a web-based platform that lets you use several Azure AI Language features without needing to write code.
Thequickstart articlefor instructions on making requests to the service using the REST API and client library SDK.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources