Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Mdsv3 Very High Memory Series
Article
2025-03-18
4 contributors
In this article
The Mdsv3 Very High Memory (VHM) series, powered by 4thgeneration Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8490H (Sapphire Rapids) processor with an all core base frequency of 1.9 GHz and 3.5 GHz single core turbo frequency, are the next generation of memory-optimized VM sizes delivering faster performance, lower total cost of ownership and improved resilience to failures compared to the previous generation. The Mv3 VHM sizes offer 32TB of memory, up to 8 GBps of throughput for remote storage, and provide up to 185 Gbps of networking performance with the current VHM generation.
Feature support
Premium Storage: SupportedPremium Storage caching: SupportedLive Migration: Not SupportedMemory Preserving Updates: Not SupportedVM Generation Support: Generation 2Accelerated Networking: SupportedEphemeral OS Disks: SupportedNested Virtualization: Not SupportedWrite Accelerator: Supported
Sizes in series (NVMe)
1VHM VM Sizes are virtual machine sizes that are Isolated to a specific hardware type and dedicated to a single customer.2The Standard_M896ixds_32_v3 VM is the Microsoft recommended VM type with 32TB to host S/4HANA workload. This VM type has Simultaneous Multithreading (SMT) disabled. With that complies with the SAP recommendations stated in SAP note #2711650 for the specific underlying hardware used in Azure to host this Virtual Machine (VM) type. With typical S/4HANA workload, tests this VM realized the best performance.3The Standard_M1792ixds_32_v3 VM has Simultaneous Multithreading (SMT) enabled and is ideal for analytical workloads as documented in SAP note #2711650 for the specific underlying hardware used in Azure to host this VM type. Typical S/4HANA workloads may show performance regressions compared to the Standard_M896ixds_32_v3 VM type. It is acknowledged that S/4HANA customer workloads are varying and can be different in nature. As a result, there might be cases where S/4HANA customer workloads could eventually benefit. And the Standard_M1792ixds_32_v3 VM type could provide performance improvements compared to the Standard_M896ixds_32_v3 VM type for a customer specific S/4HANA workload. Evaluating and hosting S/4HANA workload on Standard_M1792ixds_32_v3 is in the customer’s own responsibilities.
It's also important to note that these VMs are compatible with only certain generation 2 Images. For a list of images that are compatible with the Mdsv3-series, please see below
Windows Server 2022 Datacenter Edition latest builds
SUSE Linux enterprise Server 15 SP4 and later
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.8 or later
Ubuntu 23.10 or later
Important
Contact your Azure Account Manager to inquire about accessing these VHM VM sizes.
Size table definitions
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set toReadOnlyorReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set toNone.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Expected network bandwidthis the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth.
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance depends on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines. To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Other sizes and information
General purpose
Memory optimized
Storage optimized
GPU optimized
High performance compute
Previous generations
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
More information on Disks Types:Disk Types
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources