Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
View logs and metrics using Kibana and Grafana
Article
2024-09-19
11 contributors
In this article
Kibana and Grafana web dashboards are provided to bring insight and clarity to the Kubernetes namespaces being used by Azure Arc-enabled data services. To access Kibana and Grafana web dashboards view service endpoints checkAzure Data Studio dashboardsdocumentation.
Prerequisites
Use the Bash environment inAzure Cloud Shell. For more information, seeGet started with Azure Cloud Shell.
Use the Bash environment inAzure Cloud Shell. For more information, seeGet started with Azure Cloud Shell.

If you prefer to run CLI reference commands locally,installthe Azure CLI. If you're running on Windows or macOS, consider running Azure CLI in a Docker container. For more information, seeHow to run the Azure CLI in a Docker container.If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeAuthenticate to Azure using Azure CLI.When you're prompted, install the Azure CLI extension on first use. For more information about extensions, seeUse and manage extensions with the Azure CLI.Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
If you prefer to run CLI reference commands locally,installthe Azure CLI. If you're running on Windows or macOS, consider running Azure CLI in a Docker container. For more information, seeHow to run the Azure CLI in a Docker container.
If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeAuthenticate to Azure using Azure CLI.
If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeAuthenticate to Azure using Azure CLI.
When you're prompted, install the Azure CLI extension on first use. For more information about extensions, seeUse and manage extensions with the Azure CLI.
When you're prompted, install the Azure CLI extension on first use. For more information about extensions, seeUse and manage extensions with the Azure CLI.
Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
Monitor Azure SQL managed instances on Azure Arc
To access the logs and monitoring dashboards for SQL Managed Instance enabled by Azure Arc, run the followingazdataCLI command
azdata
az sql mi-arc endpoint list -n <name of SQL instance> --use-k8s
az sql mi-arc endpoint list -n <name of SQL instance> --use-k8s
The relevant Grafana dashboards are:
"Azure SQL managed instance Metrics"
"Host Node Metrics"
"Host Pods Metrics"
Note
When prompted to enter a username and password, enter the username and password that you provided at the time that you created the Azure Arc data controller.
Note
You will be prompted with a certificate warning because the certificates are self-signed certificates.
Monitor Azure Arc-enabled PostgreSQL server
To access the logs and monitoring dashboards for an Azure Arc-enabled PostgreSQL server, run the followingazdataCLI command
azdata
az postgres server-arc endpoint list -n <name of postgreSQL instance> --k8s-namespace <namespace> --use-k8s
az postgres server-arc endpoint list -n <name of postgreSQL instance> --k8s-namespace <namespace> --use-k8s
The relevant postgreSQL dashboards are:
"Postgres Metrics"
"Postgres Table Metrics"
"Host Node Metrics"
"Host Pods Metrics"
Additional firewall configuration
Depending on where the data controller is deployed, you may find that you need to open up ports on your firewall to access the Kibana and Grafana endpoints.
Below is an example of how to do this for an Azure VM. You will need to do this if you have deployed Kubernetes using the script.
The steps below highlight how to create an NSG rule for the Kibana and Grafana endpoints:
Find the name of the NSG
az network nsg list -g azurearcvm-rg --query "[].{NSGName:name}" -o table
az network nsg list -g azurearcvm-rg --query "[].{NSGName:name}" -o table
Add the NSG rule
Once you have the name of the NSG you can add a rule using the following command:
az network nsg rule create -n ports_30777 --nsg-name azurearcvmNSG --priority 600 -g azurearcvm-rg --access Allow --description 'Allow Kibana and Grafana ports' --destination-address-prefixes '*' --destination-port-ranges 30777 --direction Inbound --protocol Tcp --source-address-prefixes '*' --source-port-ranges '*'
az network nsg rule create -n ports_30777 --nsg-name azurearcvmNSG --priority 600 -g azurearcvm-rg --access Allow --description 'Allow Kibana and Grafana ports' --destination-address-prefixes '*' --destination-port-ranges 30777 --direction Inbound --protocol Tcp --source-address-prefixes '*' --source-port-ranges '*'
Related content
TryUpload metrics and logs to Azure Monitor
Read about Grafana:Getting startedGrafana fundamentalsGrafana tutorials
Getting started
Grafana fundamentals
Grafana tutorials
Read about KibanaIntroductionKibana guideIntroduction to dashboard drilldowns with data visualizations in KibanaHow to build Kibana dashboards
Introduction
Kibana guide
Introduction to dashboard drilldowns with data visualizations in Kibana
How to build Kibana dashboards
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources