Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Comparison matrix
Article
2025-03-31
13 contributors
In this article
The following comparison matrix shows basic functionality of different tools that can be used for migration of unstructured data.
Tip
Azure File Sync can be utilized for migrating data to Azure Files, even if you don't intend to use a hybrid solution for on-premises caching or syncing. This migration process is efficient and causes no downtime. To use Azure File Sync as a migration tool,simply deploy itand, after the migration is finished,remove the server endpoint.  Ideally Azure File Sync would be used long-term, while Storage Mover and AzCopy are intended for migration focused activities.
Overview comparison
Tip
As Cirrus Data specializes in SAN / Block data migrations, we have omitted them from the remainder of this document, which compares File data migration features. For more information about Cirrus Data and their Migrate Cloud solution, please review theCirrus Data getting Started Guide.
Supported Azure services
Supported protocols (source / destination)
Extended features
Assessment and reporting
Licensing
Other features
AzCopy
Multi-platform support
Windows 32-bit / 64-bit
Linux x86-64 and ARM64
macOS Intel and ARM64
Benchmarkingazcopy bench
Supports block blobs, page blobs, and append blobs
MD5 checks for downloads
Customizable transfer rate to preserve bandwidth on the client
Tagging
Data Dynamics Data Mobility and Migration
Hash validation
Komprise Elastic Data Migration
Project/directory based migrations
Migration prechecks with analytics
Migration planning with analytics
Assessment / reporting: File types, file size, project based
Assessment / reporting: Custom metadata-based searches
Simple UI migration management
API access to automate large migration jobs
Automatic retry of failures
Access time-based analytics for Azure Blob Storage, and S3
Tagging support
Support 24 x 7 x 365
In-product support via chat built-in
Hash validation
Atempo Miria
Custom metadata management
Automation through API
Petabyte-scale data movements
Hash validation
Note
List was last verified on August 24, 2023
See also
Storage migration overview
Choose an Azure solution for data transfer
Migrate to Azure file shares
Migrate to Data Lake Storage with WANdisco LiveData Platform for Azure
Copy or move data to Azure Storage with AzCopy
Migrate large datasets to Azure Blob Storage with AzReplicate (sample application)
Important
1Support provided by ISV, not Microsoft
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources