Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is a secured virtual hub?
Article
2025-01-07
7 contributors
In this article
A virtual hub is a Microsoft-managed virtual network that enables connectivity from other resources. When a virtual hub is created from a Virtual WAN in the Azure portal, a virtual hub VNet and gateways (optional) are created as its components.
Asecuredvirtual hub is anAzure Virtual WAN Hubwith associated security and routing policies configured by Azure Firewall Manager. Use secured virtual hubs to easily create hub-and-spoke and transitive architectures with native security services for traffic governance and protection. Multiple secured hubs can be deployed within the same region or across regions part of the same Virtual WAN resource. Use Firewall Manager in the Azure portal to add more secured hubs.
You can use a secured virtual hub to filter traffic between virtual networks (V2V), branch-to-branch (B2B)*, branch offices (B2V) and traffic to the Internet (B2I/V2I). A secured virtual hub provides automated routing. There's no need to configure your own UDRs (user defined routes) to route traffic through your firewall.
You can choose the required security providers to protect and govern your network traffic, including Azure Firewall, third-party security as a service (SECaaS) providers, or both. To learn more, seeWhat is Azure Firewall Manager?.
Create a secured virtual hub
Using Firewall Manager in the Azure portal, you can either create a new secured virtual hub, or convert an existing virtual hub that you previously created using Azure Virtual WAN.
*Virtual WAN routing intent must be configured to secure inter-hub and branch-to-branch communications, even within a single Virtual WAN hub. For more information on routing intent, see theRouting Intent documentation.
Next steps
Review Firewall Manager architecture options:What are the Azure Firewall Manager architecture options?
To create a secured virtual hub and use it  to secure and govern a hub and spoke network, seeTutorial: Secure your cloud network with Azure Firewall Manager using the Azure portal.
Learn more about Azure network security
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources