Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Control egress traffic for your Azure Red Hat OpenShift (ARO) cluster
Article
2025-02-25
14 contributors
In this article
This article provides the necessary details that allow you to secure outbound traffic from your Azure Red Hat OpenShift cluster (ARO). With the release of theEgress Lockdown Feature, all of the required connections for an ARO cluster are proxied through the service. There are additional destinations that you may want to allow to use features such as Operator Hub or Red Hat telemetry.
Important
Do not attempt these instructions on older ARO clusters if those clusters don't have the Egress Lockdown feature enabled. To enable the Egress Lockdown feature on older ARO clusters, seeEnable Egress Lockdown.
Endpoints proxied through the ARO service
The following endpoints are proxied through the service, and do not need additional firewall rules. This list is here for informational purposes only.
arosvc.azurecr.io
arosvc.$REGION.data.azurecr.io
management.azure.com
login.microsoftonline.com
monitor.core.windows.net
monitoring.core.windows.net
blob.core.windows.net
servicebus.windows.net
table.core.windows.net
List of optional endpoints
Additional container registry endpoints
registry.redhat.io
quay.io
cdn.quay.io
cdn01.quay.io
cdn02.quay.io
cdn03.quay.io
access.redhat.com
registry.access.redhat.com
registry.connect.redhat.com
Red Hat Telemetry and Red Hat Insights
By default, ARO clusters are opted-out of Red Hat Telemetry  and Red Hat Insights. If you wish to opt-in to Red Hat telemetry, allow the following endpoints andupdate your cluster's pull secret.
cert-api.access.redhat.com
api.access.redhat.com
infogw.api.openshift.com
console.redhat.com/api/ingress
For additional information on remote health monitoring and telemetry, see theRed Hat OpenShift Container Platform documentation.
Other additional OpenShift endpoints
api.openshift.com
mirror.openshift.com
*.apps.<cluster_domain>*
ARO integrations
Azure Monitor container insights
ARO clusters can be monitored using the Azure Monitor container insights extension. Review the pre-requisites and instructions forenabling the extension.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources