Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What are init scripts?
Article
2025-02-18
3 contributors
In this article
An init script (initialization script) is a shell script that runs during startup of each cluster node before the Apache Spark driver or executor JVM starts. This article provides recommendations for init scripts and configuration information if you must use them.
Recommendations for init scripts
Databricks recommends using built-in platform features instead of init scripts whenever possible. Widespread use of init scripts can slow migration to new Databricks Runtime versions and prevent adoption of some Databricks optimizations.
Important
If you need to migrate from init scripts on DBFS, seeMigrate init scripts from DBFS.
The following Databricks features address some of the common use cases for init scripts:
Use compute policies to set system properties, environmental variables, and Spark configuration parameters. SeeCompute policy reference.
Add libraries to cluster policies. SeeAdd libraries to a policy.
If you must use init scripts:
Manage init scripts using compute policies or cluster-scoped init scripts rather than global init scripts. Seeinit script types.
Manage library installation for production and interactive environments using compute policies. Don’t install libraries using init scripts. Seecompute policies.
Use standard access mode (formerly shared access mode) for all workloads. Only use the dedicated access mode (formerly single user access mode)if required functionality is not supported by standard access mode.
Use new Databricks Runtime versions and Unity Catalog for all workloads.
The following table provides recommendations organized by Databricks Runtime version and Unity Catalog enablement.
What types of init scripts does Azure Databricks support?
Azure Databricks supports two kinds of init scripts: cluster-scoped and global, but using cluster-scoped init scripts are recommended.
Cluster-scoped: run on every cluster configured with the script. This is the recommended way to run an init script. SeeCluster-scoped init scripts.
Global: run on all clusters in the workspace configured with dedicated access mode or no-isolation shared access mode. These init scripts can cause unexpected issues, such as library conflicts. Only workspace admin users can create global init scripts. SeeGlobal init scripts.
Whenever you change any type of init script, you must restart all clusters affected by the script.
Global init-scripts run before cluster-scoped init scripts.
Important
Legacy global and legacy cluster-named init scripts run before other init scripts. These init scripts are end-of-life, but might be present in workspaces created before February 21, 2023. SeeCluster-named init scripts (legacy)andGlobal init scripts (legacy).
Where can init scripts be installed?
You can store and configure init scripts from workspace files, Unity Catalog volumes, and cloud object storage, but init scripts are not supported on all cluster configurations and not all files can be referenced from init scripts. For environment recommendations for init scripts, seeRecommendations for init scripts.
The following table indicates the support for init scripts based on the source location and the cluster access mode. The Databricks Runtime version listed is the minimum version required to use the combination. For information about cluster access modes, seeAccess modes.
Note
Standard access mode requires an admin to add init scripts to anallowlist. SeeAllowlist libraries and init scripts on compute with standard access mode (formerly shared access mode).
allowlist
Migrate init scripts from DBFS
Warning
Init scripts on DBFS have reached end-of-life and can no longer be used. You must migrate your init scripts to a supported location before you can start compute. Store init scripts on Unity Catalog Volumes, as workspace files, or in cloud object storage.
Users that need to migrate init scripts from DBFS can use the following guides. Make sure you’ve identified the correct target for your configuration. SeeRecommendations for init scripts.
Migrate init scripts from DBFS to volumes
Migrate init scripts from DBFS to workspace files
Migrate init scripts from DBFS to Azure Data Lake Storage
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources