Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Managed Redis (preview) and Azure Cache for Redis FAQ
FAQ
1 contributor
Applies to: ✅ Azure Managed Redis
In this article
Learn the answers to common questions, patterns, and best practices for Azure Managed Redis and Azure Cache for Redis.
Planning FAQs
Development FAQs
Management FAQs
Common monitoring and troubleshooting FAQs
Redis licensing change
What are the changes to Redis licensing?
The Redis open-source project changed to a dual-license model with support for the Redis Source Available License version 2 (RSALv2) or Server-Side Public License version 1 (SSPLv1). For more information, see theRedis press release. Also see theMicrosoft blog post on the Redis licensing change.
Is Azure Cache for Redis or Azure Managed Redis (preview) also covered by the RSALv2 and SSPLv1 licenses?
No, Azure Cache for Redis and Azure Managed Redis (preview) are offered to customers under the Microsoft terms of service. The RSALv2 and SSPLv1 licenses don't apply to your use of Azure Cache for Redis.
Will my Azure Redis instance continue to receive patches and bug fixes?
Yes, all Azure Cache for Redis and Azure Managed Redis (preview) tiers will continue to receive patches and bug fixes even after the licensing announcement.
What do I need to do as an Azure Cache for Redis or Azure Managed Redis (preview) customer in response to this licensing announcement?
No action is required for our Azure customers regarding the licensing announcement.
Deprecated Services
Which Azure Cache for Redis services were deprecated?
Managed Cache service -Managed Cache servicewas retired November 30, 2016.
Managed Cache service -Managed Cache servicewas retired November 30, 2016.
In-Role Cache -In-Role Cachewas retired November 30, 2016.
In-Role Cache -In-Role Cachewas retired November 30, 2016.
General questions
What if my Azure Redis question isn't answered here?
If your question isn't listed here, let us know so we can help you find an answer.
To reach a wider audience, you can post a question on theMicrosoft Q&A question page for Azure Redisand engage with the Azure Redis team and other members of the community.
To reach a wider audience, you can post a question on theMicrosoft Q&A question page for Azure Redisand engage with the Azure Redis team and other members of the community.
If you want to make a feature request, you can submit your requests and ideas toAzure Redis User Voice.
If you want to make a feature request, you can submit your requests and ideas toAzure Redis User Voice.
You can also send your question to us atazurecache@microsoft.com.
You can also send your question to us atazurecache@microsoft.com.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources