Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Diagnostics extension overview
Article
2024-11-14
8 contributors
In this article
Azure Diagnostics extension is anagent in Azure Monitorthat collects monitoring data from the guest operating system of Azure compute resources including virtual machines. This article provides an overview of Azure Diagnostics extension, the specific functionality that it supports, and options for installation and configuration.
Note
Azure Diagnostics extension will be deprecated on March 31, 2026. After this date, Microsoft will no longer provide support for the Azure Diagnostics extension.
Migrate from Azure Diagnostic extensions for Linux (LAD) and Windows (WAD) to Azure Monitor Agent
Azure Monitor Agent can collect and send data to multiple destinations, including Log Analytics workspaces, Azure Event Hubs, and Azure Storage.
To check which extensions are installed on your VM, selectExtensions + applicationsunderSettingson your VM.
Remove LAD or WAD after you set up Azure Monitor Agent to collect the same data to Event Hubs or Azure Storage to avoid duplicate data.
As an alternative to storage, we highly recommend you set up a table with theAuxiliary planin your Log Analytics workspace for cost-effective logging.
Primary scenarios
Use Azure Diagnostics extension if you need to:
Send data to Azure Storage for archiving or to analyze it with tools such asAzure Storage Explorer.
Send data toAzure Monitor Metricsto analyze it withmetrics explorerand to take advantage of features such as near-real-timemetric alertsandautoscale(Windows only).
Send data to third-party tools by usingAzure Event Hubs.
Collectboot diagnosticsto investigate VM boot issues.
Limitations of Azure Diagnostics extension:
It can only be used with Azure resources.
It has limited ability to send data to Azure Monitor Logs.
Comparison to Log Analytics agent
The Log Analytics agent in Azure Monitor can also be used to collect monitoring data from the guest operating system of virtual machines. You can choose to use either or both depending on your requirements. For a comparison of the Azure Monitor agents, seeOverview of the Azure Monitor agents.
The key differences to consider are:
Azure Diagnostics Extension can be used only with Azure virtual machines. The Log Analytics agent can be used with virtual machines in Azure, other clouds, and on-premises.
Azure Diagnostics extension sends data to Azure Storage,Azure Monitor Metrics(Windows only) and Azure Event Hubs. The Log Analytics agent collects data toAzure Monitor Logs.
The Log Analytics agent is required for retiredsolutions,VM insights, and other services such asMicrosoft Defender for Cloud.
Costs
There's no cost for Azure Diagnostics extension, but you might incur charges for the data ingested. CheckAzure Monitor pricingfor the destination where you're collecting data.
Data collected
The following tables list the data that can be collected by the Windows and Linux diagnostics extension.
Windows diagnostics extension (WAD)
Linux diagnostics extension (LAD)
Data destinations
The Azure Diagnostics extension for both Windows and Linux always collects data into an Azure Storage account. For a list of specific tables and blobs where this data is collected, seeInstall and configure Azure Diagnostics extension for WindowsandUse Azure Diagnostics extension for Linux to monitor metrics and logs.
Configure one or moredata sinksto send data to other destinations. The following sections list the sinks available for the Windows and Linux diagnostics extension.
Windows diagnostics extension (WAD)
You can also collect WAD data from storage into a Log Analytics workspace to analyze it with Azure Monitor Logs, although the Log Analytics agent is typically used for this functionality. It can send data directly to a Log Analytics workspace and supports solutions and insights that provide more functionality. SeeCollect Azure diagnostic logs from Azure Storage.
Linux diagnostics extension (LAD)
LAD writes data to tables in Azure Storage. It supports the sinks in the following table.
Installation and configuration
The diagnostics extension is implemented as avirtual machine extensionin Azure, so it supports the same installation options using Azure Resource Manager templates, PowerShell, and the Azure CLI. For information on installing and maintaining virtual machine extensions, seeVirtual machine extensions and features for WindowsandVirtual machine extensions and features for Linux.
You can also install and configure both the Windows and Linux diagnostics extension in the Azure portal underDiagnostic settingsin theMonitoringsection of the virtual machine's menu.
See the following articles for information on installing and configuring the diagnostics extension for Windows and Linux:
Install and configure Azure Diagnostics extension for Windows
Use Linux diagnostics extension to monitor metrics and logs
Supported operating systems
The following tables list the operating systems that are supported by WAD and LAD. See the documentation for each agent for unique considerations and for the installation process. See Telegraf documentation for its supported operating systems. All operating systems are assumed to be x64. x86 is not supported for any operating system.
Windows
Linux
* Requires Python 2 to be installed on the machine and aliased to the python command.
Other documentation
See the following articles for more information.
Azure Cloud Services (classic) web and worker roles
Introduction to Azure Cloud Services monitoring
Enabling Azure Diagnostics in Azure Cloud Services
Application Insights for Azure Cloud Services
Trace the flow of an Azure Cloud Services application with Azure Diagnostics
Azure Service Fabric
Monitor and diagnose services in a local machine development setup
Next steps
Learn touse performance counters in Azure Diagnostics.
If you have trouble with diagnostics starting or finding your data in Azure Storage tables, seeTroubleshooting Azure Diagnostics.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources