Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is the Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool?
Article
2025-02-20
3 contributors
In this article
The Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool (AzAcSnap) is a command-line tool that enables data protection for third-party databases. It handles all the orchestration required to put those databases into an application-consistent state before taking a storage snapshot. After the snapshot, the tool returns the databases to an operational state.
Check out the steps toget started with the Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool.
Architecture overview
You can install AzAcSnap on the same host as the database, or you can install it on a centralized system. But, you must have network connectivity to the database servers and the storage back end (Azure Resource Manager for Azure NetApp Files or HTTPS for Azure Large Instances).
AzAcSnap is a lightweight application that's typically run from an external scheduler. On most Linux systems, this operation iscron, which is what the documentation focuses on. But the scheduler could be an alternative tool, as long as it can import theazacsnapuser's shell profile. Importing the user's environment settings ensures that file paths and permissions are initialized correctly.
cron
azacsnap
Benefits of using AzAcSnap
AzAcSnap uses the volume snapshot and replication functionalities in Azure NetApp Files and Azure Large Instances. It provides the following benefits:
Rapid backup snapshots independent of database sizeAzAcSnap takes an almost instantaneous snapshot of the database with zero performance hit, regardless of the size of the database volumes. It takes snapshots in parallel across all the volumes, to allow multiple volumes to be part of the database storage.In tests, the tool took less than two minutes to take a snapshot backup of a database of 100+ tebibytes (TiB) stored across 16 volumes.
Rapid backup snapshots independent of database size
AzAcSnap takes an almost instantaneous snapshot of the database with zero performance hit, regardless of the size of the database volumes. It takes snapshots in parallel across all the volumes, to allow multiple volumes to be part of the database storage.
In tests, the tool took less than two minutes to take a snapshot backup of a database of 100+ tebibytes (TiB) stored across 16 volumes.
Application-consistent data protectionYou can deploy AzAcSnap as a centralized or distributed solution for backing up critical database files. It ensures database consistency before it performs a storage volume snapshot. As a result, it ensures that you can use the storage volume snapshot for database recovery.  Database roll forward options are available when used with log files.
Application-consistent data protection
You can deploy AzAcSnap as a centralized or distributed solution for backing up critical database files. It ensures database consistency before it performs a storage volume snapshot. As a result, it ensures that you can use the storage volume snapshot for database recovery.  Database roll forward options are available when used with log files.
Database catalog managementWhen you use AzAcSnap with SAP HANA, the records within the backup catalog are kept current with storage snapshots. This capability allows a database administrator to see the backup activity.
Database catalog management
When you use AzAcSnap with SAP HANA, the records within the backup catalog are kept current with storage snapshots. This capability allows a database administrator to see the backup activity.
Ad hoc volume protectionThis capability is helpful for non-database volumes that don't need application quiescing before the tool takes a storage snapshot.  These can be any unstructured file-system, which includes database files like SAP HANA log-backup volumes and shared file systems, or SAPTRANS volumes.
Ad hoc volume protection
This capability is helpful for non-database volumes that don't need application quiescing before the tool takes a storage snapshot.  These can be any unstructured file-system, which includes database files like SAP HANA log-backup volumes and shared file systems, or SAPTRANS volumes.
Cloning of storage volumesThis capability provides space-efficient storage volume clones for rapid development and test purposes.
Cloning of storage volumes
This capability provides space-efficient storage volume clones for rapid development and test purposes.
Support for disaster recoveryAzAcSnap uses storage volume replication to provide options for recovering replicated application-consistent snapshots at a remote site.
Support for disaster recovery
AzAcSnap uses storage volume replication to provide options for recovering replicated application-consistent snapshots at a remote site.
AzAcSnap is a single binary. It doesn't need additional agents or plug-ins to interact with the database or the storage (Azure NetApp Files via Azure Resource Manager, and Azure Large Instances via Secure Shell [SSH]).
Technical articles
The following technical articles describe how to set up AzAcSnap as part of a data protection strategy:
Backup and Recovery Guide for SAP HANA on Azure VMs with Azure NetApp Files snapshots by AzAcSnap
Backup and Recovery Guide for SAP Oracle 19c on Azure VMs with Azure NetApp Files snapshots by AzAcSnap
Backup and Recovery Guide for SAP Db2 on Azure VMs with Azure NetApp Files snapshots by AzAcSnap
Backup and Recovery Guide for SAP ASE 16.0 on Azure VMs with Azure NetApp Files snapshots by AzAcSnap
Backup and Recovery Guide for MS SQL Server on Azure VMs with Azure NetApp Files snapshots by AzAcSnap
Backup and Recovery Guide for SAP HANA on Azure Large Instance from storage snapshots by AzAcSnap
SAP Oracle 19c System Refresh Guide on Azure VMs using Azure NetApp Files Snapshots with AzAcSnap
Protecting HANA databases configured with HSR on Azure NetApp Files with AzAcSnap
Automating SAP system copy operations with Libelle SystemCopy
Supported databases, operating systems, and Azure platforms
DatabasesSAP HANA (see thesupport matrixfor details)Oracle Database release 12 or later (seeOracle VM images and their deployment on Microsoft Azurefor details)IBM Db2 for LUW on Linux-only version 10.5 or later (seeIBM Db2 Azure Virtual Machines DBMS deployment for SAP workloadfor details)MS SQL Server 2022+
Databases
SAP HANA (see thesupport matrixfor details)
Oracle Database release 12 or later (seeOracle VM images and their deployment on Microsoft Azurefor details)
IBM Db2 for LUW on Linux-only version 10.5 or later (seeIBM Db2 Azure Virtual Machines DBMS deployment for SAP workloadfor details)
MS SQL Server 2022+
Operating systemsSUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12+Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8+Oracle Linux 8+Windows Server 2016+
Operating systems
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12+
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8+
Oracle Linux 8+
Windows Server 2016+
Azure platformsAzure Virtual Machines with Azure NetApp Files storageAzure Large Instances (on bare-metal infrastructure)
Azure platforms
Azure Virtual Machines with Azure NetApp Files storage
Azure Large Instances (on bare-metal infrastructure)
Tip
If you're looking for new features (or support for other databases, operating systems, and platforms), seePreview features of the Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool. You can also providefeedback or suggestions.
Supported scenarios
The snapshot tools can be used in the followingSupported scenarios for HANA Large InstancesandSAP HANA with Azure NetApp Files.
Snapshot Support Matrix from SAP
The following matrix is provided as a guideline on which versions of SAP HANA are supported by SAP for Storage Snapshot Backups.
*SAP changed terminology from Storage Snapshots to Data Snapshots from 2.0 SPS 02
Additional SAP deployment considerations:
When setting up the HANA user for backup, you need to set up the user for each HANA instance. Create an SAP HANA user account to access HANA instance under the SYSTEMDB (and not in the tenant database).
Automated log deletion is managed with the--trimoption of theazacsnap -c backupfor SAP HANA 2 and later releases.
--trim
azacsnap -c backup
Important
The snapshot tools only interact with the node of the SAP HANA system specified in the configuration file.  If this node becomes unavailable, there's no mechanism to automatically start communicating with another node.
For anSAP HANA Scale-Out with Standbyscenario it's typical to install and configure the snapshot tools on the primary node. But, if the primary node becomes
unavailable, the standby node will take over the primary node role. In this case, the implementation team should configure the snapshot tools on both
nodes (Primary and Stand-By) to avoid any missed snapshots. In the normal state, the primary node will take HANA snapshots initiated by crontab.  If the primary
node fails over those snapshots will have to be executed from another node, such as the new primary node (former standby). To achieve this outcome, the standby
node would need the snapshot tool installed, storage communication enabled, hdbuserstore configured,azacsnap.jsonconfigured, and crontab commands staged
in advance of the failover.
For anSAP HANA Scale-Out with Standbyscenario it's typical to install and configure the snapshot tools on the primary node. But, if the primary node becomes
unavailable, the standby node will take over the primary node role. In this case, the implementation team should configure the snapshot tools on both
nodes (Primary and Stand-By) to avoid any missed snapshots. In the normal state, the primary node will take HANA snapshots initiated by crontab.  If the primary
node fails over those snapshots will have to be executed from another node, such as the new primary node (former standby). To achieve this outcome, the standby
node would need the snapshot tool installed, storage communication enabled, hdbuserstore configured,azacsnap.jsonconfigured, and crontab commands staged
in advance of the failover.
azacsnap.json
For anSAP HANA HSR HAscenario, it's recommended to install, configure, and schedule the snapshot tools on both (Primary and Secondary) nodes. Then, if
the Primary node becomes unavailable, the Secondary node will take over with snapshots being taken on the Secondary. In the normal state, the Primary node
will take HANA snapshots initiated by crontab.  The Secondary node would attempt to take snapshots but fail as the Primary is functioning correctly.  But,
after Primary node failover, those snapshots will be executed from the Secondary node. To achieve this outcome, the Secondary node needs the snapshot tool
installed, storage communication enabled,hdbuserstoreconfigured,azacsnap.jsonconfigured, and crontab enabled in advance of the failover.See the technical article onProtecting HANA databases configured with HSR on Azure NetApp Files with AzAcSnap
For anSAP HANA HSR HAscenario, it's recommended to install, configure, and schedule the snapshot tools on both (Primary and Secondary) nodes. Then, if
the Primary node becomes unavailable, the Secondary node will take over with snapshots being taken on the Secondary. In the normal state, the Primary node
will take HANA snapshots initiated by crontab.  The Secondary node would attempt to take snapshots but fail as the Primary is functioning correctly.  But,
after Primary node failover, those snapshots will be executed from the Secondary node. To achieve this outcome, the Secondary node needs the snapshot tool
installed, storage communication enabled,hdbuserstoreconfigured,azacsnap.jsonconfigured, and crontab enabled in advance of the failover.
hdbuserstore
azacsnap.json
See the technical article onProtecting HANA databases configured with HSR on Azure NetApp Files with AzAcSnap
Next steps
Get started with the Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources