Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Prepare on-premises machines for migration to Azure
Article
2025-04-17
22 contributors
In this article
This article describes how to prepare on-premises machines before you migrate them to Azure using theMigration and modernizationtool.
In this article, you:
Review migration limitations.
Select a method for migrating VMware vSphere VMs.
Check hypervisor and operating system requirements for machines you want to migrate.
Review URL and port access for machines you want to migrate.
Review changes you might need to make before you begin migration.
Check Azure VMs requirements for migrated machines.
Prepare machines so you can connect to the Azure VMs after migration.
Verify migration limitations
The table summarizes discovery, assessment, and migration limits for Azure Migrate. We recommend that you assess machines before migration, but you don't have to.
Select a VMware vSphere migration method
If you're migrating VMware vSphere VMs to Azure,comparethe agentless and agent-based migration methods, to decide what works best for you.
Verify hypervisor requirements
VerifyVMware agentless, orVMware vSphere agent-basedrequirements.
VerifyHyper-V hostrequirements.
Verify operating system requirements
Verify supported operating systems for migration:
If you're migrating VMware vSphere VMs or Hyper-V VMs, verify VMware vSphere VM requirements foragentless, andagent-basedmigration, and requirements forHyper-V VMs.
VerifyWindows operating systemsare supported in Azure.
VerifyLinux distributionssupported in Azure.
Review URL and port access
Review which URLs and ports are accessed during migration.
Verify required changes before migrating
There are some changes needed on VMs before you migrate them to Azure.
For some operating systems, Azure Migrate makes changes automatically during the replication/migration process.
For other operating systems, you need to configure settings manually.
It's important to configure settings manually before you begin migration. Some of the changes may affect VM boot up, or connectivity to the VM may not be established. If you migrate the VM before you make the change, the VM might not boot up in Azure.
Review the tables to identify the changes you need to make.
Windows machines
Changes performed are summarized in the table.
Learn moreon the changes performed on Windows servers for agentless VMware vSphere migrations.
By default, Azure VMs are assigned drive D: to use as temporary storage.
This drive assignment causes all other attached storage drive assignments to increment by one letter.
For example, if your on-premises installation uses a data disk that is assigned to drive D: for application installations, the assignment for this drive increments to drive E: after you migrate the VM to Azure.
To prevent this automatic assignment, and to ensure that Azure assigns the next free drive letter to its temporary volume, set the storage area network (SAN) policy toOnlineAll:
Configure this setting manually as follows:
On the on-premises machine (not the host server), open an elevated command prompt.
Enterdiskpart.
EnterSAN. If the drive letter of the guest operating system isn't maintained,Offline AllorOffline Sharedis returned.
At theDISKPARTprompt, enterSAN Policy=OnlineAll. This setting ensures that disks are brought online, and it ensures that you can read and write to both disks.
During the test migration, you can verify that the drive letters are preserved.
Linux machines
Azure Migrate completes these actions automatically for these versions
Red Hat Enterprise Linux  9.5, 9.x, 8.x, 7.9, 7.8, 7.7, 7.6, 7.5, 7.4, 7.3, 7.2, 7.1, 7.0, 6.x (Azure Linux VM agent is also installed automatically during migration)
CentOS Stream (Azure Linux VM agent is also installed automatically during migration)
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15 SP4, 15 SP3, 15 SP2, 15 SP1, 15 SP0, 12, 11 SP4, 11 SP3
Ubuntu 22.04, 21.04, 20.04, 19.04, 19.10, 18.04LTS, 16.04LTS, 14.04LTS (Azure Linux VM agent is also installed automatically during migration)
Debian 11, 10, 9, 8, 7
Oracle Linux 9, 8, 7.7-CI, 7.7, 6
Alma Linux 8.x, 9.x
Rocky Linux 8.x, 9.x
For other versions, prepare machines as summarized in the table.
Note
Some changes may affect the VM boot up, or connectivity to the VM may not be established.
Learn moreon the changes performed on Linux servers for agentless VMware vSphere migrations.
The following table summarizes the steps performed automatically for the operating systems listed above.
Learn more about steps forrunning a Linux VM on Azure, and get instructions for some of the popular Linux distributions.
Review the list ofrequired packagesto install Linux VM agent. Azure Migrate installs the Linux VM agent automatically for  RHEL 8.x, Ubuntu 20.04, SUSE 15 and Oracle 7 when using the agentless method of VMware migration.
Check Azure VM requirements
On-premises machines that you replicate to Azure must comply with Azure VM requirements for the operating system and architecture, the disks, network settings, and VM naming.
Before migrating, review the Azure VMs requirements forVMware,Hyper-V, andphysical servermigration.
Prepare to connect after migration
Azure VMs are created during migration to Azure. After migration, you must be able to connect to the new Azure VMs. Multiple steps are required to connect successfully.
Prepare to connect to Azure Windows VMs
On on-premises Windows machines:
Configure Windows settings. Settings include removing any static persistent routes or WinHTTP proxy.
Make surerequired servicesare running.
Enable remote desktop (RDP) to allow remote connections to the on-premises machine. Learn how touse PowerShell to enable RDP.
To access an Azure VM over the internet after migration, in Windows Firewall on the on-premises machine, allow TCP and UDP in the Public profile, and set RDP as an allowed app for all profiles.
If you want to access an Azure VM over a site-to-site VPN after migration, in Windows Firewall on the on-premises machine, allow RDP for the Domain and Private profiles. Learn how toallow RDP traffic.
Make sure there are no Windows updates pending on the on-premises VM when you migrate. If there are, updates might start installing on the Azure VM after migration, and you won't be able to sign into the VM until updates finish.
Prepare to connect with Linux Azure VMs
On on-premises Linux machines:
Check that the Secure Shell service is set to start automatically on system boot.
Check that firewall rules allow an SSH connection.
Configure Azure VMs after migration
After migration, complete these steps on the Azure VMs that are created:
To connect to the VM over the internet, assign a public IP address to the VM. You must use a different public IP address for the Azure VM than you used for your on-premises machine.Learn more.
Check that network security group (NSG) rules on the VM allow incoming connections to the RDP or SSH port.
Checkboot diagnosticsto view the VM.
Next steps
Decide which method you want to use tomigrate VMware vSphere VMsto Azure, or begin migratingHyper-V VMsorphysical servers or virtualized or cloud VMs.
See what's supported
For VMware vSphere VMs, Migration and modernization supportsagentless or agent-based migration.
VMware vSphere VMs: Verifymigration requirements and supportfor VMware vSphere VMs.
Hyper-V VMs: Verifymigration requirements and supportfor Hyper-V VMs.
Physical machines: Verifymigration requirements and supportfor on-premises physical machines and other virtualized servers.
Learn more
Prepare for VMware vSphere agentless migration with Azure Migrate.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources