Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What's new in Azure Database for MySQL?
Article
2025-04-23
30 contributors
In this article
What is Azure Database for MySQLIs an Azure Database service that provides more granular control and flexibility over database management functions and configuration settings. The service currently supports the community versions of MySQL 5.7 and 8.0.
This article summarizes new releases and features in the Azure Database for MySQL service.
Note
This article references the term slave, which Microsoft no longer uses. When the term is removed from the software, we remove it from this article.
March 2025
New Built-in Stored Procedures for Plugin Management and Undo Log Cleanup
There are two new built-in stored procedures in Azure Database for MySQL, allowing customers to manage plugin settings and clean up undo logs without requiring support intervention:
Validate Password Plugin Management:Enable:CALL az_install_validate_password_plugin();Disable:CALL az_uninstall_validate_password_plugin();Once enabled, the plugin's configuration parameters are available in theServer Parameterspage on the Azure portal.
Validate Password Plugin Management:
Enable:CALL az_install_validate_password_plugin();
CALL az_install_validate_password_plugin();
Disable:CALL az_uninstall_validate_password_plugin();
CALL az_uninstall_validate_password_plugin();
Once enabled, the plugin's configuration parameters are available in theServer Parameterspage on the Azure portal.
Undo Log Cleanup:A new stored procedure is available to manually clean up theUndo Log, preventing unnecessary storage consumption.
Undo Log Cleanup:
A new stored procedure is available to manually clean up theUndo Log, preventing unnecessary storage consumption.
Refer to theBuilt-in stored procedures in Azure Database for MySQLarticle to learn more about Azure Database for MySQL built-in store procedure
Caching SHA-2 Password Plugin Now Exposed by Default
Thecaching_sha2_passwordplugin is now exposed to customers by default. Customers can enable and configure it by setting the relevantServer Parametersin the Azure portal.
caching_sha2_password
February 2025
Known Issues
Azure Advisor recommendations might continue to recommend enabling accelerated logs even after the feature is enabled on your Azure Database for MySQL server.
Azure Advisor recommendations might continue to recommend enabling accelerated logs even after the feature is enabled on your Azure Database for MySQL server.
For servers withcustomer managed keys (CMK), enablingaccelerated logsmight not work due to a current limitation. As a workaround, you can temporarily disable CMK, enable accelerated logs, and then re-enable CMK. We're actively working to resolve this issue at the earliest. For more information, see theaccelerated logs documentation.
For servers withcustomer managed keys (CMK), enablingaccelerated logsmight not work due to a current limitation. As a workaround, you can temporarily disable CMK, enable accelerated logs, and then re-enable CMK. We're actively working to resolve this issue at the earliest. For more information, see theaccelerated logs documentation.
January 2025
Default zone-resiliency for Business-Critical service tier
You now benefit from the highest level of availability against infrastructure failures within an availability zone, at no extra cost for mission-critical workloads running on the Business-Critical service tier. Regardless of whether your flexible servers are enabled with High Availability (HA), your server data and log files are hosted in zone-redundant storage by default. While zone-redundant HA-enabled servers continue to benefit from a 99.99% uptime SLA from the built-in zonal redundancy and hot standby, non-HA servers are able to recover quickly from zonal outages using zone-redundant backups. This enhancement is applicable to all new server provisioned in Business-Critical service tier.
Accelerated Logs enabled for all new business critical servers
Accelerated Logs, a feature that significantly enhances the performance of Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instances, is now enabled by default for all new Business-Critical servers. Accelerated Logs offers a dynamic solution designed for high throughput needs, reducing latency with no extra cost. Existing Business Critical servers can also enable Accelerated Logs through the Azure portal.Accelerated logs feature in Azure Database for MySQL.
November 2024
MySQL 8.4 LTS version support - Public Preview
Azure Database for MySQL now supports MySQL 8.4 LTS version, bringing the latest MySQL capabilities to Azure. MySQL 8.4 LTS version offers enhanced replication features, expanded monitoring, and long-term support, making it ideal for production environments requiring stability and advanced management.Azure Database for MySQL version support policy
MySQL 9.1 innovation version support - Public Preview
Azure Database for MySQL now supports MySQL 9.1 Innovation version, introduces experimental features, including JavaScript support for stored procedures and the new vector data type, designed for modern applications in machine learning and analytics.Azure Database for MySQL version support policy
Feedback and support
If you have questions about or suggestions for working with Azure Database for MySQL, consider the following points of contact as appropriate:
To contact Azure Support,file a ticket from the Azure portal.
To fix an issue with your account, file asupport requestin the Azure portal.
Related content
Azure Database for MySQL pricing
public documentation
troubleshooting common migration errors
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources