Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Manage IP access lists
Article
2025-04-22
2 contributors
In this article
This page introduces IP access lists for the Azure Databricks account and workspaces.
IP access lists overview
Note
This feature requires thePremium plan.
IP access lists enhance security by providing control over which networks can connect to your Azure Databricks account and workspaces. The default allows connections from any IP address.
Restrict access based on the user's source IP address.
Allow connections only from approved networks like corporate offices or VPNs.
Block access attempts from insecure or public networks like coffee shops.
There are two IP access list features:
IP access lists for the account console (Public Preview): Account admins can configure IP access lists for the account console to allow users to connect to the account console UI and account-level REST APIs only through a set of approved IP addresses. Account owners and account admins can use an account console UI or a REST API to configure allowed and blocked IP addresses and subnets. SeeConfigure IP access lists for the account console.
IP access lists for workspaces: Workspace admins can configure IP access lists for Azure Databricks workspaces to allow users to connect to the workspace or workspace-level APIs only through a set of approved IP addresses. Workspace admins use a REST API to configure allowed and blocked IP addresses and subnets. SeeConfigure IP access lists for workspaces.
Note
If you use Private Link, IP access lists apply only to requests over the internet (public IP addresses). Private IP addresses from Private Link traffic cannot be blocked by IP access lists. To control who can access Azure Databricks using private link, you can check which private endpoints have been created SeeEnable Azure Private Link back-end and front-end connections.
How is access checked?
The IP access lists feature allows you to configure allow lists and block lists for the Azure Databricks account console and workspaces:
Allow listscontain the set of IP addresses on the public internet that are allowed access. Allow multiple IP addresses explicitly or as entire subnets (for example216.58.195.78/28).
216.58.195.78/28
Block listscontain the IP addresses or subnets to block, even if they are included in the allow list. You might use this feature if an allowed IP address range includes a smaller range of infrastructure IP addresses that in practice are outside the actual secure network perimeter.
When a connection is attempted:
First all block lists are checked.If the connection IP address matches any block list, the connection is rejected.
If the connection was not rejected by block lists, the IP address is compared with the allow lists. If there is at least one allow list, the connection is allowed only if the IP address matches an allow list. If there are no allow lists, all IP addresses are allowed.
If the feature is disabled, all access is allowed to your account or workspace.

For all allow lists and block lists combined, the account console supports a maximum of 1000 IP/CIDR values, where one CIDR counts as a single value.
Changes to IP access lists can take a few minutes to take effect.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources