Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Session host statuses and health checks in Azure Virtual Desktop
Article
2024-03-05
3 contributors
In this article
The Azure Virtual Desktop Agent regularly runs health checks on the session host. The agent assigns these health checks various statuses that include descriptions of how to fix common issues. This article tells you what each status means and how to act on them during a health check.
Session host statuses
The following table lists all statuses for session hosts in the Azure portal each potential status.Availableis considered the ideal default status. Any other statuses represent potential issues that you need to take care of to ensure the service works properly.
Note
If an issue is listed asnon-fatal, the service can still run with the issue active. However, we recommend you resolve the issue as soon as possible to prevent future issues. If an issue is listed asfatal, it prevents the service from running. You must resolve all fatal issues to make sure your users can access the session host.
Health check
The health check is a test run by the agent on the session host. The following table lists each type of health check and describes what it does.
Next steps
For an overview on troubleshooting Azure Virtual Desktop and the escalation tracks, seeTroubleshooting overview, feedback, and support.
To troubleshoot issues while creating an Azure Virtual Desktop environment and host pool in an Azure Virtual Desktop environment, seeEnvironment and host pool creation.
To troubleshoot issues while configuring a virtual machine (VM) in Azure Virtual Desktop, seeSession host virtual machine configuration.
To troubleshoot issues related to the Azure Virtual Desktop agent or session connectivity, seeTroubleshoot common Azure Virtual Desktop Agent issues.
To troubleshoot issues when using PowerShell with Azure Virtual Desktop, seeAzure Virtual Desktop PowerShell.
To go through a troubleshoot tutorial, seeTutorial: Troubleshoot Resource Manager template deployments.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources