Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Assessment Overview (migrate to Azure SQL)
Article
2025-04-23
15 contributors
In this article
This article provides an overview of assessments for migrating on-premises SQL Server instances from a VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V, and Physical environment to SQL Server on Azure VM or Azure SQL Database or Azure SQL Managed Instance using theAzure Migrate: Discovery and assessment tool.
What's an assessment?
An assessment with the Discovery and assessment tool is a point in time snapshot of data and measures the readiness and estimates the effect of migrating on-premises servers to Azure.
Types of assessments
There are four types of assessments that you can create using the Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment tool.
Note
If the number of Azure VM or AVS assessments are incorrect on the Discovery and assessment tool, select the total number of assessments to navigate to all the assessments and recalculate the Azure VM or AVS assessments. The Discovery and assessment tool then shows the correct count for that assessment type.
An Azure SQL assessment provides two sizing criteria:
How do I assess my on-premises SQL servers?
You can assess your on-premises SQL Server instances by using the configuration and utilization data collected by a lightweight Azure Migrate appliance. The appliance discovers on-premises SQL server instances and databases and sends the configuration and performance data to Azure Migrate.Learn More.
How do I assess with the appliance?
If you're deploying an Azure Migrate appliance to discover on-premises servers, do the following steps:
Set up Azure and your on-premises environment to work with Azure Migrate.
For your first assessment, create an Azure Migrate project and add the Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment tool to it.
Deploy a lightweight Azure Migrate appliance. The appliance continuously discovers on-premises servers and sends configuration and performance data to Azure Migrate. Deploy the appliance as a VM or a physical server. You don't need to install anything on servers that you want to assess.
After the appliance begins discovery, you can gather servers you want to assess into a group and run an assessment for the group with assessment typeAzure SQL.
Follow our tutorial for assessingSQL Server instancesto try out these steps.
How does the appliance calculate performance data for SQL instances and databases?
The appliance collects performance data for compute settings with these steps:
The appliance collects a real-time sample point. For SQL servers, it collects a sample point every 30 seconds.
The appliance aggregates the sample data points collected every 30 seconds over 10 minutes. To create the data point, the appliance selects the peak values from all samples. It sends the max, mean and variance for each counter to Azure.
Azure Migrate stores all the 10-minute data points for the last month.
When you create an assessment, Azure Migrate identifies the appropriate data point to use for right-sizing. Identification is based on the percentile values for performance history and percentile utilization.For example, if the performance history is one week and the percentile utilization is the 95th percentile, the assessment sorts the 10-minute sample points for the last week. It sorts them in ascending order and picks the 95th percentile value for right-sizing.The 95th percentile value makes sure you ignore any outliers, which might be included if you picked the 99th percentile.If you want to pick the peak usage for the period and don't want to miss any outliers, select the 99th percentile for percentile utilization.
For example, if the performance history is one week and the percentile utilization is the 95th percentile, the assessment sorts the 10-minute sample points for the last week. It sorts them in ascending order and picks the 95th percentile value for right-sizing.
The 95th percentile value makes sure you ignore any outliers, which might be included if you picked the 99th percentile.
If you want to pick the peak usage for the period and don't want to miss any outliers, select the 99th percentile for percentile utilization.
This value is multiplied by the comfort factor to get the effective performance utilization data for these metrics that the appliance collects:CPU utilization (%)Memory utilization (%)Read IO/s and Write IO/s (Data and Log files)Read MB/s and Write MB/s (Throughput)Latency of IO operations
CPU utilization (%)
Memory utilization (%)
Read IO/s and Write IO/s (Data and Log files)
Read MB/s and Write MB/s (Throughput)
Latency of IO operations
What properties are used to create and customize an Azure SQL assessment?
The Azure SQL assessment properties include:
Review the best practicesfor creating an assessment with Azure Migrate.
Calculate readiness
Note
The assessment only includes databases that are in online status. In case the database is in any other status, the assessment ignores the readiness, sizing and cost calculation for such databases.
In case you wish to assess such databases, change the status of the database and recalculate the assessment in some time.
Azure SQL readiness
Readiness checks for different migration strategies:
Azure SQL readiness for SQL instances and databases is based on a feature compatibility check with SQL Server on Azure VM,Azure SQL Database, andAzure SQL Managed Instance:
The Azure SQL assessment considers the SQL Server instance features that are currently used by the source SQL Server workloads (SQL Agent jobs, linked servers, etc.) and the user databases schemas (tables, views, triggers, stored procedures etc.) to identify compatibility issues.
If there are no compatibility issues found, the instance is marked asReadyfor the target deployment type (SQL Server on Azure VM or Azure SQL Database or Azure SQL Managed Instance)
If there are non-critical compatibility issues, such as deprecated or unsupported features that don't block the migration to a specific target deployment type, the instance is marked asReady(hyperlinked) withwarningdetails and recommended remediation guidance. This includes the situation where the source data has an Always On Availability Group configuration and the required replicas exceed those available with the specific target deployment type.
If there are any compatibility issues that might block the migration to a specific target deployment type, the instance is marked asReady with conditionswithissuedetails and recommended remediation guidance.In the Recommended deployment, Instances to Azure SQL MI, and Instances to SQL Server on Azure VM readiness reports, if there's even one database in a SQL instance, which isn't ready for a particular target deployment type, the instance is marked asReady with conditionsfor that deployment type.
In the Recommended deployment, Instances to Azure SQL MI, and Instances to SQL Server on Azure VM readiness reports, if there's even one database in a SQL instance, which isn't ready for a particular target deployment type, the instance is marked asReady with conditionsfor that deployment type.
Not ready: The assessment couldn't find a SQL Server on Azure VM/Azure SQL MI/Azure SQL DB configuration meeting the desired configuration and performance characteristics. Review the recommendation to make the instance/server ready for the desired target deployment type.
If the discovery is still in progress or there are any discovery issues for a SQL instance or database, the instance is marked asUnknownas the assessment couldn't compute the readiness for that SQL instance.
Note
In the recommended deployment strategy, migrating instances to SQL Server on Azure VM is the recommended strategy for migrating SQL Server instances. Though, when SQL Server credentials are not available, the Azure SQL assessment provides right-sized lift-and-shift ie "Server to SQL Server on Azure VM" recommendations.
Refer to readinesshere.
Recommended deployment type
For the recommended deployment migration strategy, the assessment recommends an Azure SQL deployment type that is the most compatible with your SQL instance and is the most cost-effective. Migrating to a Microsoft-recommended target reduces your overall migration effort. If your instance is ready for SQL Server on Azure VM, Azure SQL Managed Instance, and Azure SQL Database, the target deployment type, which has the least migration readiness issues and is the most cost-effective is recommended.
If you select the target deployment type asRecommendedin the Azure SQL assessment properties, Azure Migrate recommends an Azure SQL deployment type that is compatible with your SQL instance. Migrating to a Microsoft-recommended target reduces your overall migration effort.
Note
In the recommended deployment strategy, if the source SQL Server is good fit for all three deployment targets- SQL Server on Azure VM, Azure SQL Managed Instance and Azure SQL Database, the assessment recommends a specific option that optimizes your cost and fits within the size and performance boundaries.
Security readiness
If the database/instance is marked asReadyfor the target deployment type Azure SQL DB/MI, it's automatically consideredReadyfor Microsoft Defender for SQL.
If the database/instance is marked asReadyfor the target deployment type SQL Server on Azure VM, it's consideredReadyfor Microsoft Defender for SQL if it's running any of these versions:
SQL Server versions 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2022
For all other versions, it's marked asReady with Conditions.
Calculate sizing
After the assessment determines the readiness and the recommended Azure SQL deployment type, it computes a specific service tier and Azure SQL configuration (SKU size) that can meet or exceed the on-premises SQL Server performance. This calculation depends on whether you're usingAs on-premisesorPerformance-basedsizing criteria.
As on-premises sizing calculation
If you use As on-premises sizing criteria, the assessment uses only SQL instance configuration data and doesn't consider performance data.
The assessment computes a specific service tier and Azure SQL configuration (SKU size) that can meet or exceed the on-premises SQL instance configuration:
During the discovery process, Azure Migrate collects SQL instance configuration that includes:vCores (allocated)Memory (allocated)Total DB size and database file organizationsDatabase size is calculated by adding all the data and log files.
vCores (allocated)
Memory (allocated)
Total DB size and database file organizationsDatabase size is calculated by adding all the data and log files.
Database size is calculated by adding all the data and log files.
The assessment aggregates all the configuration data and tries to find the best match across various Azure SQL service tiers and configurations and picks a configuration that can match or exceed the SQL instance requirements, optimizing the cost.
Instance to SQL Server on Azure VMassessment report covers the ideal approach for migrating SQL Server instances and databases to SQL Server on Azure VM, adhering to the best practices.Learn more.
For storage sizing, the assessment maps each of the instance disk to an Azure disk. Sizing works as follows:
The disk size needed for each of the disks is the size of SQL Data and SQL Log drives.
The disk size needed for each of the disks is the size of SQL Data and SQL Log drives.
The assessment recommends creating a storage disk pool for all SQL Log and SQL Data drives. For temp drives, the assessment recommends storing the files in the local drive.
The assessment recommends creating a storage disk pool for all SQL Log and SQL Data drives. For temp drives, the assessment recommends storing the files in the local drive.
If the assessment can't find a disk for the required size, it marks the instance as unsuitable for migrating to SQL Server on Azure VM
If the assessment can't find a disk for the required size, it marks the instance as unsuitable for migrating to SQL Server on Azure VM
If the assessment finds a set of suitable disks, it selects the disks that support the location specified in the assessment settings.
If the assessment finds a set of suitable disks, it selects the disks that support the location specified in the assessment settings.
If the environment type isProduction, the assessment tries to find Premium disks to map each of the disks, else it tries to find a suitable disk, which could either be Premium or Standard SSD disk.If there are multiple eligible disks, assessment selects the disk with the lowest cost.
If the environment type isProduction, the assessment tries to find Premium disks to map each of the disks, else it tries to find a suitable disk, which could either be Premium or Standard SSD disk.
If there are multiple eligible disks, assessment selects the disk with the lowest cost.
After it calculates storage requirements, the assessment considers CPU and RAM requirements of the instance to find a suitable VM size in Azure.
The assessment looks at the allocated cores and RAM to find a suitable Azure VM size.
If no suitable size is found, the server is marked as unsuitable for Azure.
If a suitable size is found, Azure Migrate applies the storage calculations. It then applies location and pricing-tier settings for the final VM size recommendation.
If there are multiple eligible Azure VM sizes, the one with the lowest cost is recommended.
Note
As Azure SQL assessments are intended to give the best performance for your SQL workloads, the VM series list only has VMs that are optimized for running your SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs).Learn more.
ForAll servers to SQL Server on Azure VMmigration strategy, refer compute and storage sizinghere.
Note
Confidence ratings are not applicable to Azure SQL assessments usingAs on-premisessizing criteria.
Performance-based sizing calculation
If you usePerformance-basedsizing, the assessment uses both SQL instance configuration and performance data to generate recommendations that meet or exceed the performance requirements.
The assessment computes a specific service tier and Azure SQL configuration (SKU size) that can meet or exceed the on-premises SQL instance performance requirements:
During the discovery process, Azure Migrate collects SQL instance configuration and performance that includes:vCores (allocated) and CPU utilization (%)CPU utilization for a SQL instance is the percentage of allocated CPU utilized by the instance on the SQL serverCPU utilization for a database is the percentage of allocated CPU utilized by the database on the SQL instanceMemory (allocated) and memory utilization (%)Read IO/s and Write IO/s (Data and Log files)Read IO/s and Write IO/s at a SQL instance level is calculated by adding the Read IO/s and Write IO/s of all databases discovered in that instance.Read MB/s and Write MB/s (Throughput)Latency of IO operationsTotal DB size and database file organizationsDatabase size is calculated by adding all the data and log files.Always On Failover Cluster Instance network subnet configuration (Single Subnet or Multi-Subnet)Always On Availability Group configurationsNetwork configuration of participating instances (Single Subnet or Multi-Subnet)Number and type of secondary replicasAvailability Mode: Synchronous Commit vs Asynchronous CommitConnection Mode: Read-only vs None
vCores (allocated) and CPU utilization (%)CPU utilization for a SQL instance is the percentage of allocated CPU utilized by the instance on the SQL serverCPU utilization for a database is the percentage of allocated CPU utilized by the database on the SQL instance
CPU utilization for a SQL instance is the percentage of allocated CPU utilized by the instance on the SQL server
CPU utilization for a database is the percentage of allocated CPU utilized by the database on the SQL instance
Memory (allocated) and memory utilization (%)
Read IO/s and Write IO/s (Data and Log files)Read IO/s and Write IO/s at a SQL instance level is calculated by adding the Read IO/s and Write IO/s of all databases discovered in that instance.
Read IO/s and Write IO/s at a SQL instance level is calculated by adding the Read IO/s and Write IO/s of all databases discovered in that instance.
Read MB/s and Write MB/s (Throughput)
Latency of IO operations
Total DB size and database file organizationsDatabase size is calculated by adding all the data and log files.
Database size is calculated by adding all the data and log files.
Always On Failover Cluster Instance network subnet configuration (Single Subnet or Multi-Subnet)
Always On Availability Group configurationsNetwork configuration of participating instances (Single Subnet or Multi-Subnet)Number and type of secondary replicasAvailability Mode: Synchronous Commit vs Asynchronous CommitConnection Mode: Read-only vs None
Network configuration of participating instances (Single Subnet or Multi-Subnet)
Number and type of secondary replicasAvailability Mode: Synchronous Commit vs Asynchronous CommitConnection Mode: Read-only vs None
Availability Mode: Synchronous Commit vs Asynchronous Commit
Connection Mode: Read-only vs None
The assessment aggregates all the configuration and performance data and tries to find the best match across various Azure SQL service tiers and configurations and picks a configuration that can match or exceed the SQL instance performance requirements, optimizing the cost.
Instance to SQL Server on Azure VMassessment report covers the ideal approach for migrating SQL Server instances and databases to SQL Server on Azure VM, adhering to the best practices.Learn more.
If the source is a SQL Server Always On Failover Cluster Instance (FCI), the assessment report covers the approach for migrating to a two-node SQL Server Failover Cluster Instance. This preserves the high availability and disaster recovery intents while adhering to the best practices.Learn more.
For storage sizing, the assessment maps each of the instance disk to an Azure disk. Sizing works as follows:
Assessment adds the read and write IOPS of a disk to get the total IOPS required. Similarly, it adds the read and write throughput values to get the total throughput of each disk. The disk size needed for each of the disks is the size of SQL Data and SQL Log drives.
Assessment adds the read and write IOPS of a disk to get the total IOPS required. Similarly, it adds the read and write throughput values to get the total throughput of each disk. The disk size needed for each of the disks is the size of SQL Data and SQL Log drives.
The assessment recommends creating a storage disk pool for all SQL Log and SQL Data drives. For temp drives, the assessment recommends storing the files in the local drive.
The assessment recommends creating a storage disk pool for all SQL Log and SQL Data drives. For temp drives, the assessment recommends storing the files in the local drive.

If the assessment can't find a disk for the required size, IOPS and throughput, it marks the instance as unsuitable for migrating to SQL Server on Azure VM
If the assessment can't find a disk for the required size, IOPS and throughput, it marks the instance as unsuitable for migrating to SQL Server on Azure VM
If the assessment finds a set of suitable disks, it selects the disks that support the location specified in the assessment settings.
If the assessment finds a set of suitable disks, it selects the disks that support the location specified in the assessment settings.
If the source is a SQL Server Always On Failover Cluster Instance, shared disk configuration is selected.
If the source is a SQL Server Always On Failover Cluster Instance, shared disk configuration is selected.
If the environment type isProduction, the assessment tries to find Premium disks to map each of the disks, else it tries to find a suitable disk, which could either be Premium or Standard SSD disk. If there are multiple eligible disks, assessment selects the disk with the lowest cost.
If the environment type isProduction, the assessment tries to find Premium disks to map each of the disks, else it tries to find a suitable disk, which could either be Premium or Standard SSD disk. If there are multiple eligible disks, assessment selects the disk with the lowest cost.
Compute sizing
After storage disks are identified, the assessment considers CPU and memory requirements of the instance to find a suitable VM SKU in Azure.
The assessment calculates effective utilized cores and memory to find a suitable Azure VM size.Effectiveutilized RAM or memoryfor an instance is calculated by aggregating the buffer cache (buffer pool size in MB) for all the databases running in an instance.
If there are multiple eligible Azure VM sizes, the one with the lowest cost is recommended.
If the source is a SQL Server Always On Failover Cluster Instance, the compute size is used again for a second Azure VM to meet the need for two nodes.
Rightsizing for Lift and Shift Migration to Azure VM
For lift and shift migration refer compute and storage sizinghere.
Recommendation details
Once the readiness and sizing calculation is complete, the optimization preference is applied to arrive at a recommended target and configuration. The Recommendation Details provide a detailed explanation of the readiness and sizing calculations behind the recommendation.
Migration guidance
This section provides guidance to configure the target resource and steps to migrate. The steps are specific to the source and the target deployment combinations. This guidance is specifically useful for users who intend to migrate Always On Failover Cluster Instances (FCI) and Availability Groups (AG).
Monthly costs
After the candidate SKUs are selected, Azure SQL assessment calculates the compute and storage costs for the recommended Azure SQL configurations using an internal pricing API. It aggregates the compute and storage cost across all instances to calculate the total monthly compute cost.
Compute cost
To calculate the compute cost for an Azure SQL configuration, the assessment considers the following properties:
Azure Hybrid Benefit for SQL and Windows licenses or Enterprise Linux subscription (RHEL and SLES)
Environment type
Reserved capacity
Azure target location
Currency
Offer/Licensing program
Discount (%)
Storage cost
The storage cost estimates only include data files and not log files.
For calculating storage cost for an Azure SQL configuration, the assessment considers following properties:
SQL Server migration scenarios
The SQL Assessment provides a combined report which allows you to compare migration of your on-premises workloads to available SQL targets. The report defines different migration strategies that you can consider for your SQL deployments. You can review the readiness and cost for target deployment types and the cost estimates for SQL Servers/Instances/Databases that are marked ready or ready with conditions:
Recommended deployment: This is a strategy where an Azure SQL deployment type that is the most compatible with your SQL instance. It is the most cost-effective and is recommended by Microsoft. Migrating to a Microsoft-recommended target reduces your overall migration effort. If your instance is ready for SQL Server on Azure VM, Azure SQL Managed Instance and Azure SQL Database, the target deployment type, which has the least migration readiness issues and is the most cost-effective is recommended. You can see the SQL Server instance readiness for different recommended deployment targets and monthly cost estimates for SQL instances markedReadyandReady with conditions.
Note
In the recommended deployment strategy, migrating instances to SQL Server on Azure VM is the recommended strategy for migrating SQL Server instances. When the SQL Server credentials are not available, the Azure SQL assessment provides right-sized lift-and-shift, that is,Server to SQL Server on Azure VMrecommendations.
Migrate all instances to Azure SQL MI: In this strategy, you can see the readiness and cost estimates for migrating all SQL Server instances to Azure SQL Managed Instance. There's no storage cost added for the first 32 GB/instance/month storage and additional storage cost is added for storage in 32 GB increments.Learn More.
Migrate all instances to SQL Server on Azure VM: In this strategy, you can see the readiness and cost estimates for migrating all SQL Server instances to SQL Server on Azure VM.
Migrate all servers to SQL Server on Azure VM: In this strategy, you can see how you can rehost the servers running SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure VM and review the readiness and cost estimates. Even when SQL Server credentials are not available, this report will provide right-sized lift-and-shift, that is, "Server to SQL Server on Azure VM" recommendations. The readiness and sizing logic is similar to Azure VM assessment type.
Migrate all SQL databases to Azure SQL DatabaseIn this strategy, you can see how you can migrate individual databases to Azure SQL Database and review the readiness and cost estimates.
Azure target location
Currency
Offer/Licensing program
Discount (%)
Note
Backup storage cost isn't included in the assessment.
A minimum of 5 GB storage cost is added in the cost estimate and additional storage cost is added for storage in 1 GB increments.Learn More.
Next steps
Reviewbest practices for creating assessments.
Learn how to run anAzure SQL assessment.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources