Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Best practices for monitoring Kubernetes with Azure Monitor
Article
2025-03-19
2 contributors
In this article
This article provides best practices for monitoring the health and performance of yourAzure Kubernetes Service (AKS)andAzure Arc-enabled Kubernetesclusters. The guidance is based on the five pillars of architecture excellence described inAzure Well-Architected Framework.
Reliability
In the cloud, we acknowledge that failures happen. Instead of trying to prevent failures altogether, the goal is to minimize the effects of a single failing component. Use the following information to ensure the reliability of your Kubernetes clusters and monitoring environment.
Design checklist
Enable scraping of Prometheus metrics for your cluster.
Enable Container insights for collection of logs and performance data from your cluster.
Create diagnostic settings to collect control plane logs for AKS clusters.
Enable recommended Prometheus alerts.
Ensure the availability of the Log Analytics workspace supporting Container insights.
Configuration recommendations
Security
Security is one of the most important aspects of any architecture. Azure Monitor provides features to employ both the principle of least privilege and defense-in-depth. Use the following information to monitor your Kubernetes clusters and ensure that only authorized users access collected data.
Managed identity authenticationis the default authentication method for new clusters. If you're using legacy authentication, migrate to managed identity to remove the certificate-based local authentication.
Instructions:Migrate to managed identity authentication
Azure managed service for Prometheus stores its data in an Azure Monitor workspace, which uses a public endpoint by default. Microsoft secures connections to public endpoints with end-to-end encryption. If you require a private endpoint, useAzure private linkto allow your cluster to connect to the workspace through authorized private networks. Private link can also be used to force workspace data ingestion through ExpressRoute or a VPN.
Instructions: SeeEnable private link for Kubernetes monitoring in Azure Monitorfor details on configuring your cluster for private link. SeeUse private endpoints for Managed Prometheus and Azure Monitor workspacefor details on querying your data using private link.
Traffic analyticsanalyzes Azure Network Watcher NSG flow logs to provide insights into traffic flow in your Azure cloud. Use this tool to ensure there's no data exfiltration for your cluster and to detect if any unnecessary public IPs are exposed.
Network observability add-on for AKSprovides observability across the multiple layers in the Kubernetes networking stack. Monitor and observe access between services in the cluster (east-west traffic).
Instructions:Set up Container Network Observability for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Container insights sends data to a Log Analytics workspace. Make sure to secure log ingestions and storage in your Log Analytics workspace.
Instructions:Log ingestion and storage.
Cost optimization
Cost optimization refers to ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. You can significantly reduce your cost for Azure Monitor by understanding your different configuration options and opportunities to reduce the amount of data that it collects. SeeAzure Monitor cost and usageto understand the different ways that Azure Monitor charges and how to view your monthly bill.
Note
SeeOptimize costs in Azure Monitorfor cost optimization recommendations across all features of Azure Monitor.
Design checklist
Enable collection of metrics through the Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus.
Configure agent collection to modify data collection in Container insights.
Modify settings for collection of metric data by Container insights.
Disable Container insights collection of metric data if you don't use the Container insights experience in the Azure portal.
If you don't query the container logs table regularly or use it for alerts, configure it as basic logs.
Limit collection of resource logs you don't need.
Use resource-specific logging for AKS resource logs and configure tables as basic logs.
Use OpenCost to collect details about your Kubernetes costs.
Configuration recommendations
Operational excellence
Operational excellence refers to operations processes required keep a service running reliably in production. Use the following information to minimize the operational requirements for monitoring your Kubernetes clusters.
Design checklist
Review guidance for monitoring all layers of your Kubernetes environment.
Use Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes to monitor your clusters outside of Azure.
Use Azure managed services for cloud native tools.
Integrate AKS clusters into your existing monitoring tools.
Use Azure policy to enable data collection from your Kubernetes cluster.
Configuration recommendations
Performance efficiency
Performance efficiency is the ability of your workload to scale to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. Use the following information to monitor the performance of your Kubernetes clusters and ensure they're configured for maximum performance.
Design checklist
Enable collection of Prometheus metrics for your cluster.
Enable Container insights to track performance of your cluster.
Enable recommended Prometheus alerts.
Configuration recommendations
Next step
Learn more aboutgetting started with Azure Monitor.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources