Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of Azure SQL Managed Instance resource limits
Article
2024-12-17
30 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL Managed Instance
Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Managed Instance
This article provides an overview of the technical characteristics and resource limits for Azure SQL Managed Instance, and provides information about how to request an increase to these limits.
Note
For differences in supported features and T-SQL statements seeFeature differencesandT-SQL statement support. For general differences between service tiers for Azure SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance reviewGeneral PurposeandBusiness Criticalservice tiers.
Hardware configuration characteristics
SQL Managed Instance has characteristics and resource limits that depend on the underlying infrastructure and architecture. SQL Managed Instance can be deployed on multiple hardware generations.
Hardware generations have different characteristics, as described in the following table:
1Deploying a 2-vCore instance is only possible inside aninstance pool.
2Dependent onthe number of vCores.
3Onlythe major regionscan provide 16 TB of storage. Smaller regions limit available storage to 5.5 TB.
Note
If your workload requires storage sizes greater than the available resource limits for Azure SQL Managed Instance, consider the Azure SQL DatabaseHyperscale service tier.
Regional supports for memory optimized premium-series hardware and for premium-series hardware with 16-TB storage
Support for the premium-series hardware with 16-TB storage has the same availability as support for the memory optimized premium-series hardware.
Supports for the memory-optimized premium-series hardware and the premium-series hardware with 16-TB storage are currently available only in these specific regions:
1The creation of new instances and modification of existing instances may be temporarily disabled due to limited hardware capacity in this region. To proceed with these actions, please select a different hardware generation.
In-memory OLTP available space
The amount of In-memory OLTP space inBusiness Criticalservice tier depends on the number of vCores and hardware configuration. The following table lists the limits of memory that can be used for In-memory OLTP objects.
Service tier characteristics
SQL Managed Instance has twoservice tiers: General Purpose and Business Critical. You can choose to use the upgradedNext-gen General Purpose service tier (preview).
Important
The Business Critical service tier provides an additional built-in copy of the SQL Managed Instance (secondary replica) that can be used for read-only workload. If you can separate read-write queries and read-only/analytic/reporting queries, you're getting twice the vCores and memory for the same price. The secondary replica might lag a few seconds behind the primary instance, so it's designed to offload reporting/analytic workloads that don't need exact current state of data. In the following table,read-only queriesare the queries that are executed on secondary replica.
Number of vCores
1Deploying a 2-vCore instance is only possible inside aninstance pool.
Max memory
1The memory-to-vCore ratio is only available up to 80 vCores for premium-series hardware, and 64 vCores for memory optimized premium-series. Maximum memory is capped at 560 GB for premium-series vCores above 80, and 870.4 GB for memory optimized premium-series vCores above 64.
Max instance storage size (reserved)
1Onlythe major regionscan provide 16 TB of storage for the premium-series hardware for these CPU vCore numbers. Smaller regions limit available storage to 5.5 TB.
2Onlythe major regionscan provide 8 TB of storage for the premium-series memory optimized hardware for these CPU vCore numbers. Smaller regions limit available storage to 5.5 TB.
Feature comparison
tempdb
tempdb
tempdb
tempdb
1This is an average range. Although the vast majority of IO request durations will fall under the top of the range, outliers which exceed the range are possible.
Additional considerations
Currently available instance storage sizeis the difference between reserved instance size and the used storage space.
Currently available instance storage sizeis the difference between reserved instance size and the used storage space.
Both data and log file size in the user and system databases are included in the instance storage size that is compared with the max storage size limit. Use thesys.master_filessystem view to determine the total used space by databases. Error logs aren't persisted and not included in the size. Backups aren't included in storage size.
Both data and log file size in the user and system databases are included in the instance storage size that is compared with the max storage size limit. Use thesys.master_filessystem view to determine the total used space by databases. Error logs aren't persisted and not included in the size. Backups aren't included in storage size.
Throughput and IOPS in the General Purpose tier also depends on thefile size, and isn't explicitly limited by the SQL Managed Instance.
Throughput and IOPS in the General Purpose tier also depends on thefile size, and isn't explicitly limited by the SQL Managed Instance.
Max instance IOPS depend on the file layout and distribution of workload. As an example, if you create 7 x 1-TB files with max 5 K IOPS each and seven small files (smaller than 128 GB) with 500 IOPS each, you can get 38500 IOPS per instance (7x5000+7x500) if your workload can use all files. Some IOPS are also used for autobackups.
Max instance IOPS depend on the file layout and distribution of workload. As an example, if you create 7 x 1-TB files with max 5 K IOPS each and seven small files (smaller than 128 GB) with 500 IOPS each, you can get 38500 IOPS per instance (7x5000+7x500) if your workload can use all files. Some IOPS are also used for autobackups.
You can create another readable replica in a different Azure region usingfailover groups
You can create another readable replica in a different Azure region usingfailover groups
Names oftempdbfiles can't have more than 16 characters.
Names oftempdbfiles can't have more than 16 characters.
tempdb
Find more information about theresource limits in SQL Managed Instance pools in this article.
IOPS
For the Next-gen General Purpose and Business Critical service tiers, available IOPS are dictated by the number of vCores:
Next-gen General Purpose service tier: fixed value of IOPS based on the number of vCores. The price of the storage includes the minimum IOPS. If you go above the minimum, you're charged as follows: 1 IOPS = storage price (by region) divided by three. For example, if 1 GB of storage costs 0.115, then 1 IOPS = 0.115/3 = 0.038 per IOPS.
Business Critical service tier: uses a formula (4000 IOPS/vCore) to determine IOPS limits.
The following table lists the max IOPS available to each service tier based on the number of vCores:
File IO characteristics in General Purpose tier
In the General Purpose service tier, every database file gets dedicated IOPS and throughput that depend on the file size. Larger files get more IOPS and throughput. IO characteristics of database files are shown in the following table:
If you notice high IO latency on some database file or you see that IOPS/throughput is reaching the limit, you might improve performance byincreasing the file size.
There's also an instance-level limit on the max log write throughput (see the previous table for values, for example 22 MiB/s), so you might not be able to reach the max file throughout on the log file because you're hitting the instance throughput limit.
Data and log storage
The following factors affect the amount of storage used for data and log files, and apply to General Purpose and Business Critical tiers.
In the General Purpose service tier,tempdbuses local SSD storage, and this storage cost is included in the vCore price.
tempdb
In the Business Critical service tier,tempdbshares local SSD storage with data and log files, andtempdbstorage cost is included in the vCore price.
tempdb
tempdb
The maximum storage size for a SQL Managed Instance must be specified in multiples of 32 GB.
Important
In both service tiers, you're charged for the maximum storage size configured for a managed instance.
To monitor total consumed instance storage size for SQL Managed Instance, use thestorage_space_used_mbmetric. To monitor the current allocated and used storage size of individual data and log files in a database using T-SQL, use thesys.database_filesview and theFILEPROPERTY(... , 'SpaceUsed')function.
Tip
Under some circumstances, you might need to shrink a database to reclaim unused space. For more information, seeDBCC SHRINKFILE.
Backups and storage
Storage for database backups is allocated to support thepoint-in-time restore (PITR)andlong-term retention (LTR)capabilities of SQL Managed Instance. This storage is separate from data and log file storage, and is billed separately.
PITR: In General Purpose and Business Critical tiers, individual database backups are copied toread-access geo-redundant (RA-GRS) storageautomatically. The storage size increases dynamically as new backups are created. The storage is used by full, differential, and transaction log backups. The storage consumption depends on the rate of change of the database and the retention period configured for backups. You can configure a separate retention period for each database between 1 to 35 days for SQL Managed Instance. A backup storage amount equal to the configured maximum data size is provided at no extra charge.
PITR: In General Purpose and Business Critical tiers, individual database backups are copied toread-access geo-redundant (RA-GRS) storageautomatically. The storage size increases dynamically as new backups are created. The storage is used by full, differential, and transaction log backups. The storage consumption depends on the rate of change of the database and the retention period configured for backups. You can configure a separate retention period for each database between 1 to 35 days for SQL Managed Instance. A backup storage amount equal to the configured maximum data size is provided at no extra charge.
LTR: You also have the option to configure long-term retention of full backups for up to 10 years. If you set up an LTR policy, these backups are stored in RA-GRS storage automatically, but you can control how often the backups are copied. To meet different compliance requirements, you can select different retention periods for weekly, monthly, and/or yearly backups. The configuration you choose determines how much storage is used for LTR backups. For more information, seeLong-term retention - Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance.
LTR: You also have the option to configure long-term retention of full backups for up to 10 years. If you set up an LTR policy, these backups are stored in RA-GRS storage automatically, but you can control how often the backups are copied. To meet different compliance requirements, you can select different retention periods for weekly, monthly, and/or yearly backups. The configuration you choose determines how much storage is used for LTR backups. For more information, seeLong-term retention - Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance.
Supported regions
SQL Managed Instance can be created only insupported regions. To create a SQL Managed Instance in a region that is currently not supported, you cansend a support request via the Azure portal.
Supported subscription types
SQL Managed Instance currently supports deployment only on the following types of subscriptions:
Enterprise Agreement (EA)
Pay-as-you-go
Cloud Service Provider (CSP)
Enterprise Dev/Test
Pay-as-you-go Dev/Test
Subscriptions with monthly Azure credit for Visual Studio subscribers
Free Trial
Azure For Students
Azure In Open
Regional resource limitations
Note
For the latest information on region availability for subscriptions, first checkselect a region.
Supported subscription types can contain a limited number of resources per region. SQL Managed Instance has two default limits per Azure region (that can be increased on-demand by creating a specialsupport request in the Azure portal) depending on a type of subscription type:
Subnet limit: The maximum number of subnets where instances of SQL Managed Instance are deployed in a single region.
vCore unit limit: The maximum number of vCore units that can be deployed across all instances in a single region. One GP vCore uses one vCore unit and one BC vCore takes four vCore units. The total number of instances isn't limited as long as it's within the vCore unit limit.
Note
These limits are default settings and not technical limitations. The limits can be increased on-demand by creating a specialsupport request in the Azure portalif you need more instances in the current region. As an alternative, you can create new instances of SQL Managed Instance in another Azure region without sending support requests.
The following table shows thedefault regional limitsfor supported subscription types (default limits can be extended usinga support request):
1In planning deployments, please take into consideration that Business Critical (BC) service tier requires four (4) times more vCore capacity than General Purpose (GP) service tier. For example: 1 GP vCore = 1 vCore unit and 1 BC vCore = 4 vCore. To simplify your consumption analysis against the default limits, summarize the vCore units across all subnets in the region where SQL Managed Instance is deployed and compare the results with the instance unit limits for your subscription type.Max number of vCore unitslimit applies to each subscription in a region. There's no limit per individual subnets except that the sum of all vCores deployed across multiple subnets must be lower or equal tomax number of vCore units.
2Larger subnet and vCore limits are available in the following regions: Australia East, East US, East US 2, North Europe, South Central US, Southeast Asia, UK South, West Europe, West US 2.
Important
In case your vCore and subnet limit is 0, it means that default regional limit for your subscription type isn't set. You can also use quota increase request for getting subscription access in specific region following the same procedure - providing required vCore and subnet values.
Request a quota increase
If you need more instances in your current regions, send a support request to extend the quota using the Azure portal. For more information, seeRequest quota increases for Azure SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance.
Related content
What is Azure SQL Managed Instance?
SQL Managed Instance pricing
the quickstart guide
SLA for Azure SQL Managed Instance
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources