Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Resource organization
Article
2025-02-27
14 contributors
In this article
Use the resource organization design area to establish consistent patterns when you organize resources that you deploy to the cloud.
Design area review
Involved roles or functions:This design area requires support from one or morecloud platformandcloud center of excellencefunctions to make and implement decisions.
Scope:Resource organization decisions provide a foundation for all compliance-related design areas. When you plan your resource organization, you can establish consistent patterns for the following areas:
Naming
Tagging
Subscription design
Management group design
The initial scope of this exercise assumes a subscription design that aligns with the Azure landing zone conceptual architecture. Workload-level or application-level subscription and landing zone assignment supports separation of duties and subscription democratization requirements.
The following assumptions are the basis for workload subscription design pattern guidance:
Your enterprise commits to long-term cloud operations.
Your enterprise commits to long-term cloud operations.
You need cloud management, security, and governance tooling to manage Azure, hybrid, or multicloud solutions.
You need cloud management, security, and governance tooling to manage Azure, hybrid, or multicloud solutions.
You have management or platform deployments in subscriptions and management groups that are separate from workload or application resources.
You have management or platform deployments in subscriptions and management groups that are separate from workload or application resources.
Multiple regions:The performance, reliability, and compliance of your cloud-based applications rely on Azure regions. Use the Azure global infrastructure to scale your applications when you need to. Regions provide the capacity to handle varying workloads. Whether you launch a new product or expand your user base, you must have the right resources in the right region to ensure agility, scalability, and high resiliency.
Use multiple regions for critical applications and services that require geo-disaster recovery capabilities. Multiple regions provide maximum resiliency. For information about how to select and operate in multiple regions, seeSelect Azure regions.
Also consider the following factors when you deploy your workload in multiple regions:
You can initially deploy in a single region and then expand tomultiple regionsin the future.
You can initially deploy in a single region and then expand tomultiple regionsin the future.
To ensure consistency and manageability, properly organize resources when you adopt a multiregion design.
To ensure consistency and manageability, properly organize resources when you adopt a multiregion design.
Depending on your requirements and desired governance model, you can organize multiregion resources at various levels, such as themanagement group,subscription and resource group,naming convention, andtagginglevels.
Depending on your requirements and desired governance model, you can organize multiregion resources at various levels, such as themanagement group,subscription and resource group,naming convention, andtagginglevels.
New cloud environment:Start your cloud journey with a small set of subscriptions. For more information, seeCreate your initial Azure subscriptions.
Existing cloud environment:If you have an existing cloud environment, consider the following guidance:
If your current environment doesn't usemanagement groups, consider incorporating them. You can use management groups to manage policies, access, and compliance across subscriptions at scale.
If your current environment doesn't usemanagement groups, consider incorporating them. You can use management groups to manage policies, access, and compliance across subscriptions at scale.
If your current environment uses management groups, seeManagement groups. Use this guidance to help evaluate your implementation.
If your current environment uses management groups, seeManagement groups. Use this guidance to help evaluate your implementation.
If you have existing subscriptions in your current environment, ensure that you use them effectively. Subscriptions act as policy and management boundaries and scale units. For more information, seeSubscriptions.
If you have existing subscriptions in your current environment, ensure that you use them effectively. Subscriptions act as policy and management boundaries and scale units. For more information, seeSubscriptions.
If you have existing resources in your current environment, seeNaming and tagging. Use this guidance to influence your tagging strategy and your naming conventions going forward.
If you have existing resources in your current environment, seeNaming and tagging. Use this guidance to influence your tagging strategy and your naming conventions going forward.
UseAzure Policyto establish and enforce consistency with taxonomic tags.
UseAzure Policyto establish and enforce consistency with taxonomic tags.
Design area overview
Cloud adoption journeys have various starting points and scale requirements. Some enterprises start with a few applications in the cloud and grow over time. Other enterprises must scale quickly to address business demands like a datacenter migration. In both scenarios, when you plan your resource organization, you must factor in environment growth to accommodate more applications and services.
Simplify resource management across your environment to prepare for increased workload numbers and scale. Consider the foundational management groups and the subscription structure in your Azure landing zone design and implementation. Plan in advance to prevent future scaling constraints.
The resource organization design area explores techniques and technologies that help maintain proper resource topologies in cloud environments. The following diagram shows the four scope levels to organize Azure resources: management groups, subscriptions, resource groups, and resources.

Next steps
Management groups
Subscriptions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources