Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is the Azure Linux Container Host for AKS?
Article
2024-11-06
5 contributors
In this article
The Azure Linux Container Host is an operating system image that's optimized for running container workloads onAzure Kubernetes Service (AKS). Microsoft maintains the Azure Linux Container Host and based it onCBL-Mariner, an open-source Linux distribution created by Microsoft.
The Azure Linux Container Host is lightweight, containing only the packages needed to run container workloads. The container host is hardened based on significant validation tests and internal usage and is compatible with Azure agents. It provides reliability and consistency from cloud to edge across AKS, AKS for Azure Stack HCI (Hyper Converged Infrastructure), and Azure Arc. You can deploy Azure Linux node pools in a new cluster, add Azure Linux node pools to your existing clusters, or migrate your existing nodes to Azure Linux nodes.
To learn more about Azure Linux, see theAzure Linux GitHub repository.
Note
Azure Linux 3.0 is generally available on AKS.
AKS customers will automatically move to Azure Linux 3.0 when upgrading their AKS versions from 1.31 to 1.32. No additional action is required.
To learn more, seeQuickstart: Enable Azure Linux 3.0.
Azure Linux Container Host key benefits
The Azure Linux Container Host offers the following key benefits:
Small and lightweightThe Azure Linux Container Host only includes the necessary set of packages needed to run container workloads. As a result, it consumes limited disk and memory resources and produces faster cluster operations (create, upgrade, delete, scale, node creation, and pod creation) on AKS.Azure Linux has only 500 packages, and as a result takes up the least disk space by up to5 GBon AKS.
The Azure Linux Container Host only includes the necessary set of packages needed to run container workloads. As a result, it consumes limited disk and memory resources and produces faster cluster operations (create, upgrade, delete, scale, node creation, and pod creation) on AKS.
Azure Linux has only 500 packages, and as a result takes up the least disk space by up to5 GBon AKS.
Secure supply chainThe Linux and AKS teams at Microsoft build, sign, and validate theAzure Linux Container Host packagesfrom source, and host packages and sources in Microsoft-owned and secured platforms.Before we release a package, each package runs through a full set of unit tests and end-to-end testing on the existing image to prevent regressions. The extensive testing, in combination with the smaller package count, reduces the chances of disruptive updates to applications.Azure Linux has a focus on stability, often backporting fixes in core components like the kernel or openssl. It also limits substantial changes or significant version bumps to major release boundaries (for example, Azure Linux 2.0 to 3.0), which prevents customer outages.
The Linux and AKS teams at Microsoft build, sign, and validate theAzure Linux Container Host packagesfrom source, and host packages and sources in Microsoft-owned and secured platforms.
Before we release a package, each package runs through a full set of unit tests and end-to-end testing on the existing image to prevent regressions. The extensive testing, in combination with the smaller package count, reduces the chances of disruptive updates to applications.
Azure Linux has a focus on stability, often backporting fixes in core components like the kernel or openssl. It also limits substantial changes or significant version bumps to major release boundaries (for example, Azure Linux 2.0 to 3.0), which prevents customer outages.
Secure by defaultThe Azure Linux Container Host has an emphasis on security. It follows the secure-by-default principles, including using a hardened Linux kernel with Azure cloud optimizations and flags tuned for Azure. It also provides a reduced attack surface and eliminates patching and maintenance of unnecessary packages.Microsoft monitors the CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) database and releases security patches monthly and critical updates within days if necessary.Azure Linux passes all theCIS Level 1 benchmarks, making it the only Linux distribution on AKS that does so.For more information on Azure Linux Container Host security principles, see theAKS security concepts.
The Azure Linux Container Host has an emphasis on security. It follows the secure-by-default principles, including using a hardened Linux kernel with Azure cloud optimizations and flags tuned for Azure. It also provides a reduced attack surface and eliminates patching and maintenance of unnecessary packages.
Microsoft monitors the CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) database and releases security patches monthly and critical updates within days if necessary.
Azure Linux passes all theCIS Level 1 benchmarks, making it the only Linux distribution on AKS that does so.
For more information on Azure Linux Container Host security principles, see theAKS security concepts.
Maintains compatibility with existing workloadsAll existing and future AKS extensions, add-ons, and open-source projects on AKS support Azure Linux. Extension support includes support for runtime components like Dapr, IaC tools like Terraform, and monitoring solutions like Dynatrace.Azure Linux ships withcontainerdas its container runtime and the upstream Linux kernel, which enables existing containers based on Linux images (like Alpine) to work seamlessly on Azure Linux.
All existing and future AKS extensions, add-ons, and open-source projects on AKS support Azure Linux. Extension support includes support for runtime components like Dapr, IaC tools like Terraform, and monitoring solutions like Dynatrace.
Azure Linux ships withcontainerdas its container runtime and the upstream Linux kernel, which enables existing containers based on Linux images (like Alpine) to work seamlessly on Azure Linux.
containerd
What's new with Azure Linux 3.0?
Azure Linux 3.0 is generally available to use on AKS. Every three years, Azure Linux releases a new version of its operating system with upgrades to major components.
The following table outlines information about the upgrades made to major components as part of this release:
For information on Azure Linux 2.0 and Azure Linux 3.0 support lifecycles, seeAzure Linux Container Host support lifecycle.
Azure Linux Container Host supported GPU Virtual Machine Sizes
NVIDIA V100
NVIDIA T4
Note
Azure Linux doesn't support the NC A100 v4 series. All other VM SKUs that are available on AKS are available with Azure Linux.
If there are any areas you would like to have priority, please file an issue in theAKS GitHub repository.
Next steps
Learn more aboutAzure Linux Container Host core concepts.
Follow our tutorial toDeploy, manage, and update applications.
Get started byCreating an Azure Linux Container Host for AKS cluster using Azure CLI.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources