Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Audit queries in Azure Monitor Logs
Article
2024-12-08
10 contributors
In this article
Log query audit logs provide telemetry about log queries run in Azure Monitor. This includes information such as when a query was run, who ran it, what tool was used, the query text, and performance statistics describing the query's execution.
Configure query auditing
Query auditing is enabled with adiagnostic settingon the Log Analytics workspace. This allows you to send audit data to the current workspace or any other workspace in your subscription, to Azure Event Hubs to send outside of Azure, or to Azure Storage for archiving.
Azure portal
Access the diagnostic setting for a Log Analytics workspace in the Azure portal in either of the following locations:
From theAzure Monitormenu, selectDiagnostic settings, and then locate and select the workspace.
From theAzure Monitormenu, selectDiagnostic settings, and then locate and select the workspace.

From theLog Analytics workspacesmenu, select the workspace, and then selectDiagnostic settings.
From theLog Analytics workspacesmenu, select the workspace, and then selectDiagnostic settings.

Resource Manager template
You can get an example Resource Manager template fromDiagnostic setting for Log Analytics workspace.
Audit data
An audit record is created each time a query is run. If you send the data to a Log Analytics workspace, it's stored in a table calledLAQueryLogs. The following table describes the properties in each record of the audit data.
Request Client App
Considerations
Queries are only logged when executed in a user context. No Service-to-Service within Azure will be logged. The two primary sets of queries this exclusion encompasses are billing calculations and automated alert executions. In the case of alerts, only the scheduled alert query itself won't be logged; the initial execution of the alert in the alert creation screen is executed in a user context, and will be available for audit purposes.
Performance statistics aren't available for queries coming from the Azure Data Explorer proxy. All other data for these queries will still be populated.
Thehhint on strings thatobfuscates string literalswon't have an effect on the query audit logs. The queries will be captured exactly as submitted without the string being obfuscated. You should ensure that only users who have compliance rights to see this data are able to do so using the various Kubernetes RBAC or Azure RBAC modes available in Log Analytics workspaces.
For queries that include data from multiple workspaces, the query will only be captured in those workspaces to which the user has access.
Costs
There's no cost for Azure Diagnostic Extension, but you may incur charges for the data ingested. CheckAzure Monitor pricingfor the destination where you're collecting data.
Next steps
Learn more aboutdiagnostic settings.
Learn more aboutoptimizing log queries.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources