Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Manage Azure subscription policies
Article
2025-04-10
4 contributors
In this article
This article helps you to configure Azure subscription policies to control the movement of Azure subscriptions from and into directories. The default behavior of these two policies is set toAllow Everyone. Note that the setting ofAllow Everyoneallows all authorized users, including authorized guest users on a subscription to be able to transfer them. It does not mean all users of a directory.
Prerequisites
Only directoryglobal administratorscan edit subscription policies. Before editing subscription policies, the global administrator mustElevate access to manage all Azure subscriptions and management groups. Then they can edit subscription policies.
All other users can only read the current policy setting.
Subscriptions transferred into or out of a directory must remain associated with a Billing Tenant to ensure billing occurs correctly.
Available subscription policy settings
Use the following policy settings to control the movement of Azure subscriptions from and into directories.
Subscriptions leaving a Microsoft Entra ID directory
The policy allows or stops users from moving subscriptions out of the current directory.Subscription ownerscanchange the directory of an Azure subscriptionor use transfer features available on the Azure portal and APIs to another directory where they're a member. Global administrators can allow or disallow directory users from changing the directory or transfer of subscriptions.
Set this policy toPermit no oneif you do not want subscriptions to be transferred out of your directory. This policy applies to all authorized subscriptions users including authorized guest users of your directory.
Set this policy toAllow Everyoneif you want all authorized users including authorized guest users to be able to transfer subscriptions out of your directory.
Subscriptions entering a Microsoft Entra ID directory
The policy allows or stops users from other directories, who have access in the current directory, to move subscriptions into the current directory.Subscription ownerscanchange the directory of an Azure subscriptionor transfer them to another directory where they're a member. Global administrators can allow or disallow directory users from transferring these subscriptions.
Set this policy toPermit no oneif you do not want subscriptions to be transferred into your directory. This policy applies to all authorized users, including authorized guest users of your directory.
Set this policy toAllow Everyoneif you want all authorized users, including authorized guest users in your directory to be able to transfer subscriptions into your directory.
Exempted Users
For governance reasons, global administrators can block all subscription directory moves - in to or out of the current directory. However they might want to allow specific users to do both operations. For both situations, they can configure a list of exempted users that allows these users to bypass all the policy settings that apply to everyone else.
Authorized users (including guest users) in your directory can create Azure subscriptions in another directory where they have billing permissions and then transfer those subscriptions into your Entra ID directory.  If you don't want to allow this, you should set one or both of the following policies:
Subscriptions leaving Entra ID directory should be set toPermit no one.
Subscriptions entering Entra ID directory should be set toPermit no one.
Setting subscription policy
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Navigate toSubscriptions.Manage Policiesis shown on the command bar.
SelectManage Policiesto view details about the current subscription policies set for the directory. A global administrator withelevated permissionscan make edits to the settings including adding or removing exempted users.
SelectSave changesat the bottom to save changes. The changes are effective immediately.
Read subscription policy
Non-global administrators can still navigate to the subscription policy area to view the directory's policy settings. They can't make any edits. They can't see the list of exempted users for privacy reasons. They can view their global administrators to submit requests for policy changes, as long as the directory settings allow them to.

Next steps
Read theCost Management + Billing documentation
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources