Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Authenticate to dedicated SQL pool (formerly SQL DW) in Azure Synapse Analytics
Article
2023-10-12
11 contributors
In this article
Learn how to authenticate to dedicated SQL pool (formerly SQL DW) in Azure Synapse by using Microsoft Entra ID or SQL Server authentication.
To connect to a dedicated SQL pool (formerly SQL DW), you must pass in security credentials for authentication purposes. Upon establishing a connection, certain connection settings are configured as part of establishing your query session.
For more information on security and how to enable connections to your dedicated SQL pool (formerly SQL DW), seesecuring a database documentation.
SQL authentication
To connect to dedicated SQL pool (formerly SQL DW), you must provide the following information:
Fully qualified servername
Specify SQL authentication
Username
Password
Default database (optional)
By default, your connection connects to themasterdatabase and not your user database. To connect to your user database, you can choose to do one of two things:
Specify the default database when registering your server with the SQL Server Object Explorer in SSDT, SSMS, or in your application connection string. For example, include the InitialCatalog parameter for an ODBC connection.
Highlight the user database before creating a session in SSDT.
Note
The Transact-SQL statementUSE MyDatabase;is not supported for changing the database for a connection. For guidance connecting to a SQL pool with SSDT, refer to theQuery with Visual Studioarticle.

Microsoft Entra authentication
Microsoft Entra IDauthentication is a mechanism of connecting to SQL pool by using identities in Microsoft Entra ID. With Microsoft Entra authentication, you can centrally manage the identities of database users and other Microsoft services in one central location. Central ID management provides a single place to manage dedicated SQL pool (formerly SQL DW) users and simplifies permission management.
Benefits
Microsoft Entra ID benefits include:
Provides an alternative to SQL Server authentication.
Helps stop the proliferation of user identities across servers.
Allows password rotation in a single place
Manage database permissions using external (Microsoft Entra ID) groups.
Eliminates storing passwords by enabling integrated Windows authentication and other forms of authentication supported by Microsoft Entra ID.
Uses contained database users to authenticate identities at the database level.
Supports token-based authentication for applications connecting to SQL pool.
Supports Multi-Factor authentication through Active Directory Universal Authentication for various tools includingSQL Server Management StudioandSQL Server Data Tools.
Note
Microsoft Entra ID is still relatively new and has some limitations. To ensure that Microsoft Entra ID is a good fit for your environment, seeMicrosoft Entra features and limitations, specifically the Additional considerations.
Configuration steps
Follow these steps to configure Microsoft Entra authentication.
Create and populate a Microsoft Entra ID
Optional: Associate or change the active directory that is currently associated with your Azure Subscription
Create a Microsoft Entra administrator for Azure Synapse
Configure your client computers
Create contained database users in your database mapped to Microsoft Entra identities
Connect to your SQL pool by using Microsoft Entra identities
Currently Microsoft Entra users are not shown in SSDT Object Explorer. As a workaround, view the users insys.database_principals.
Find the details
The steps to configure and use Microsoft Entra authentication are nearly identical for Azure SQL Database and Synapse SQL in Azure Synapse. Follow the detailed steps in the topicConnecting to SQL Database or SQL Pool By Using Microsoft Entra authentication.
Create custom database roles and add users to the roles. Then grant granular permissions to the roles. For more information, seeGetting Started with Database Engine Permissions.
Next steps
To start querying with Visual Studio and other applications, seeQuery with Visual Studio.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources