Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cluster connect access to Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters
Article
2025-04-22
2 contributors
In this article
The Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetescluster connectfeature provides connectivity to theapiserverof the cluster without requiring any inbound port to be enabled on the firewall. A reverse proxy agent running on the cluster can securely start a session with the Azure Arc service in an outbound manner.
apiserver
Cluster connect allows developers to access their clusters from anywhere for interactive development and debugging. It also lets cluster users and administrators access or manage their clusters from anywhere. You can even use hosted agents/runners of Azure Pipelines, GitHub Actions, or any other hosted CI/CD service to deploy applications to on-premises clusters, without requiring self-hosted agents.
Architecture

Note
To download Arc diagrams in high resolution, visitJumpstart Gems.
On the cluster side, a reverse proxy agent calledclusterconnect-agent, deployed as part of the agent Helm chart, makes outbound calls to the Azure Arc service to establish the session.
clusterconnect-agent
When the user callsaz connectedk8s proxy:
az connectedk8s proxy
The Azure Arc proxy binary is downloaded and spun up as a process on the client machine.
The Azure Arc proxy fetches akubeconfigfile associated with the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster on which theaz connectedk8s proxyis invoked.The Azure Arc proxy uses the caller's Azure access token and the Azure Resource Manager ID name.
kubeconfig
az connectedk8s proxy
The Azure Arc proxy uses the caller's Azure access token and the Azure Resource Manager ID name.
Thekubeconfigfile, saved on the machine by the Azure Arc proxy, points the server URL to an endpoint on the Azure Arc proxy process.
kubeconfig
When a user sends a request using thiskubeconfigfile:
kubeconfig
The Azure Arc proxy maps the endpoint receiving the request to the Azure Arc service.
The Azure Arc service then forwards the request to theclusterconnect-agentrunning on the cluster.
clusterconnect-agent
Theclusterconnect-agentpasses on the request to thekube-aad-proxycomponent, which performs Microsoft Entra authentication on the calling entity.
clusterconnect-agent
kube-aad-proxy
After Microsoft Entra authentication,kube-aad-proxyuses Kubernetesuser impersonationto forward the request to the cluster'sapiserver.
kube-aad-proxy
apiserver
Next steps
Use our quickstart toconnect a Kubernetes cluster to Azure Arc.
Access your clustersecurely from anywhere using cluster connect.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources