Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What are the default user permissions in Microsoft Entra ID?
Article
2025-03-05
55 contributors
In this article
In Microsoft Entra ID, all users are granted a set of default permissions. A user's access consists of the type of user, theirrole assignments, and their ownership of individual objects.
This article describes those default permissions and compares the member and guest user defaults. The default user permissions can be changed only in user settings in Microsoft Entra ID.
Member and guest users
The set of default permissions depends on whether the user is a native member of the tenant (member user) or is brought over from another directory, such as a business-to-business (B2B) collaboration guest (guest user). For more information about adding guest users, seeWhat is Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration?. Here are the capabilities of the default permissions:
Member userscan register applications, manage their own profile photo and mobile phone number, change their own password, and invite B2B guests. These users can also read all directory information (with a few exceptions).
Member userscan register applications, manage their own profile photo and mobile phone number, change their own password, and invite B2B guests. These users can also read all directory information (with a few exceptions).
Guest usershave restricted directory permissions. They can manage their own profile, change their own password, and retrieve some information about other users, groups, and apps. However, they can't read all directory information.For example, guest users can't enumerate the list of all users, groups, and other directory objects. Guests can be added to administrator roles, which grant them full read and write permissions. Guests can also invite other guests.
Guest usershave restricted directory permissions. They can manage their own profile, change their own password, and retrieve some information about other users, groups, and apps. However, they can't read all directory information.
For example, guest users can't enumerate the list of all users, groups, and other directory objects. Guests can be added to administrator roles, which grant them full read and write permissions. Guests can also invite other guests.
Compare member and guest default permissions
Enumerate the list of all users and contacts
Read all public properties of users and contacts
Invite guests
Change their own password
Manage their own mobile phone number
Manage their own photo
Invalidate their own refresh tokens
Read their own properties
Read display name, email, sign-in name, photo, user principal name, and user type properties of other users and contacts
Change their own password
Search for another user by object ID (if allowed)
Read manager and direct report information of other users
Read their own properties
Change their own password
Manage their own mobile phone number
Create security groups
Create Microsoft 365 groups
Enumerate the list of all groups
Read all properties of groups
Read nonhidden group membership
Read hidden Microsoft 365 group membership for joined groups
Manage properties, ownership, and membership of groups that the user owns
Add guests to owned groups
Manage group membership settings
Delete owned groups
Restore owned Microsoft 365 groups
Read properties of nonhidden groups, including membership and ownership (even nonjoined groups)
Read hidden Microsoft 365 group membership for joined groups
Search for groups by display name or object ID (if allowed)
Read object ID for joined groups
Read membership and ownership of joined groups in some Microsoft 365 apps (if allowed)
Register (create) new applications
Enumerate the list of all applications
Read properties of registered and enterprise applications
Manage application properties, assignments, and credentials for owned applications
Create or delete application passwords for users
Delete owned applications
Restore owned applications
List permissions granted to applications
Read properties of registered and enterprise applications
List permissions granted to applications
Read properties of registered and enterprise applications
List permissions granted to applications
Enumerate the list of all devices
Read all properties of devices
Manage all properties of owned devices
Read all company information
Read all domains
Read configuration of certificate-based authentication
Read all partner contracts
Read multitenant organization basic details and active tenants
Read company display name
Read all domains
Read configuration of certificate-based authentication
Read company display name
Read all domains
Read all administrative roles and memberships
Read all properties and membership of administrative units
Read all licensing subscriptions
Enable service plan memberships
Read all properties of policies
Manage all properties of owned policies
Restrict member users' default permissions
It's possible to add restrictions to users' default permissions.
You can restrict default permissions for member users in the following ways:
Caution
Using theRestrict access to Microsoft Entra administration portalswitchis NOT a security measure. For more information on the functionality, see the following table.


What does it not do?It doesn't restrict access to Microsoft Entra data using PowerShell, Microsoft GraphAPI, or other clients such as Visual Studio.It doesn't restrict access as long as a user is assigned a custom role (or any role).

When should I use this switch?Use this option to prevent users from misconfiguring the resources that they own.

When should I not use this switch?Don't use this switch as a security measure. Instead, create a Conditional Access policy that targets Windows Azure Service Management API that blocks nonadministrators access toWindows Azure Service Management API.

How do I grant only a specific non-administrator users the ability to use the Microsoft Entra administration portal?Set this option toYes, then assign them a role like global reader.

Restrict access to the Microsoft Entra administration portalA Conditional Access policy that targets Windows Azure Service Management API targets access to all Azure management.


What does this switch do?Setting this option toYesrestricts creation of Microsoft Entra tenants to anyone assigned at least theTenant Creatorrole. Setting this option toNoallows nonadmin users to create Microsoft Entra tenants. Tenant create continues to be recorded in the Audit log.

How do I grant only a specific non-administrator users the ability to create new tenants?Set this option to Yes, then assign them theTenant Creatorrole.
$false

This setting is meant for special circumstances, so we don't recommend setting the flag to$false.
$false
TheRestricted non-admin users from creating tenantsoption is shown in the following screenshot.

Restrict guest users' default permissions
You can restrict default permissions for guest users in the following ways.
Note
TheGuest user access restrictionssetting replaced theGuest users permissions are limitedsetting. For guidance on using this feature, seeRestrict guest access permissions in Microsoft Entra ID.
Setting this option toGuest user access is restricted to properties and memberships of their own directory objectsrestricts guest access to only their own user profile by default. Access to other users is no longer allowed, even when they're searching by user principal name, object ID, or display name. Access to group information, including groups memberships, is also no longer allowed.
This setting doesn't prevent access to joined groups in some Microsoft 365 services like Microsoft Teams. To learn more, seeMicrosoft Teams guest access.
Guest users can still be added to administrator roles regardless of this permission setting.
Object ownership
Application registration owner permissions
When a user registers an application, they're automatically added as an owner for the application. As an owner, they can manage the metadata of the application, such as the name and permissions that the app requests. They can also manage the tenant-specific configuration of the application, such as the single sign-on (SSO) configuration and user assignments.
An owner can also add or remove other owners. Unlike those users assigned at least the Application Administrator role, owners can manage only the applications that they own.
Enterprise application owner permissions
When a user adds a new enterprise application, they're automatically added as an owner. As an owner, they can manage the tenant-specific configuration of the application, such as the SSO configuration, provisioning, and user assignments.
An owner can also add or remove other owners. Unlike those users assigned at least the Application Administrator role, owners can manage only the applications that they own.
Group owner permissions
When a user creates a group, they're automatically added as an owner for that group. As an owner, they can manage properties of the group (such as the name) and manage group membership.
An owner can also add or remove other owners. Unlike those users assigned at least theGroups Administratorrole, owners can manage only the groups that they own and they can add or remove group members only if the group's membership type isAssigned.
To assign a group owner, seeManaging owners for a group.
To use Privileged Access Management (PIM) to make a group eligible for a role assignment, seeUse Microsoft Entra groups to manage role assignments.
Ownership permissions
The following tables describe the specific permissions in Microsoft Entra ID that member users have over objects they own. Users have these permissions only on objects that they own.
Users can perform the following actions on owned application registrations:
applications.audience
applications.authentication
applications.credentials
applications.owners
applications.permissions
applications.policies
Users can perform the following actions on owned enterprise applications. An enterprise application consists of a service principal, one or more application policies, and sometimes an application object in the same tenant as the service principal.
policies.owners
servicePrincipals.appRoleAssignedTo
users.appRoleAssignments
servicePrincipals.audience
servicePrincipals.authentication
servicePrincipals.credentials
servicePrincipals.owners
servicePrincipals.permissions
servicePrincipals.policies
Users can perform the following actions on owned devices:
devices.bitLockerRecoveryKeys
Users can perform the following actions on owned groups.
Note
Owners of dynamic membership groups must have the Groups Administrator, Intune Administrator, or User Administrator role to edit rules for dynamic membership groups. For more information, seeCreate or update a dynamic membership group in Microsoft Entra ID.
groups.appRoleAssignments
groups.members
groups.owners
groups.settings
Next steps
To learn more about theGuest user access restrictionssetting, seeRestrict guest access permissions in Microsoft Entra ID.
To learn more about theGuest user access restrictionssetting, seeRestrict guest access permissions in Microsoft Entra ID.
To learn more about how to assign Microsoft Entra administrator roles, seeAssign a user to administrator roles in Microsoft Entra ID.
To learn more about how to assign Microsoft Entra administrator roles, seeAssign a user to administrator roles in Microsoft Entra ID.
To learn more about how resource access is controlled in Microsoft Azure, seeUnderstanding resource access in Azure.
To learn more about how resource access is controlled in Microsoft Azure, seeUnderstanding resource access in Azure.
Manage users.
Manage users.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources