Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Get feedback
Article
2019-01-15
3 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019 | TFS 2018 - TFS 2013
Once you have working software, you're ready to get feedback from your stakeholders. You can ask reviewers to provide videos, screenshots, type-written comments, and ratings. Their feedback is captured into work items that you can review and use to create a bug or suggest a new backlog item.
Before requesting feedback, make sure that youprovide stakeholders who'll you request feedback from the necessary permissions.
Note
You can alsorequest feedback from stakeholders for web apps using the Test & Feedback extension. For desktop apps, you must use the feedback request form documented in this topic and stakeholders must reply using the Microsoft Feedback Client.
Prerequisites
You must connect to a project. If you don't have a project yet,create one.
You must be added to a project as a member of theContributorsorProject Administratorssecurity group. To get added,Add users to a project or team.
To request feedback, you must be grantedBasicaccess or higher. For details, seeAbout access levels.
To provide or review feedback, you must be grantedStakeholderaccess or higher.
To view or modify feedback responses, you must have yourView work items in this nodeandEdit work items in this nodepermissions set toAllow.  By default, theContributorsgroup has this permission set. To learn more, seeSet permissions and access for work tracking.
To send feedback requests, the server administrator mustconfigure an SMTP server.
Add the Other links widget to your dashboard
Add theOther linkswidget to a web portal team dashboard. For details, seeAdd widgets to a dashboard

Request feedback
To request feedback, you fill out a form that generates an email request to your stakeholders.
From the dashboard, choose theRequest feedbacklink from the Other links widget.If the following message appears, you need toconfigure an SMTP server.
From the dashboard, choose theRequest feedbacklink from the Other links widget.

If the following message appears, you need toconfigure an SMTP server.

Add the feedback reviewers. If you don't see the names you want in the browse list,grant them permissions to provide feedback.
Add the feedback reviewers. If you don't see the names you want in the browse list,grant them permissions to provide feedback.

Tell your reviewers how to run the app they'll be reviewing.
Tell your reviewers how to run the app they'll be reviewing.

For each area of interest, decide what type of feedback you want. Set the context for the reviewers by providing enough background information. Add up to four more areas of interest with theadd feedback itemlink.
For each area of interest, decide what type of feedback you want. Set the context for the reviewers by providing enough background information. Add up to four more areas of interest with theadd feedback itemlink.

Send the request.
Send the request.

Provide feedback
Reviewers launch your application and provide feedback through the free Microsoft Feedback Client.
Reviewers who don't have a version of Visual Studio installed can download the feedback client directly from the feedback request they receive.Or, they can go to theVisual Studio download site.
Reviewers who don't have a version of Visual Studio installed can download the feedback client directly from the feedback request they receive.

Or, they can go to theVisual Studio download site.
Reviewers start the feedback session.
Reviewers start the feedback session.

They launch the app to review from the feedback tool.
They launch the app to review from the feedback tool.

They begin providing feedback.
They begin providing feedback.

Reviewers can add screenshots, comments, and file attachments, and even record the feedback session. Results show up on the lower part of the screen. In this case, you can see the comment that the stakeholder wrote after attaching the screenshot.NoteSecurity Note:Unless you stop recording, everything is recorded—all steps that you take as well as anything you say. If you provide sensitive data such as user names and passwords, you will capture this information in the recording. However, you can always delete a recording by deleting the image for the recording session that appears in the feedback tool's text box.
Reviewers can add screenshots, comments, and file attachments, and even record the feedback session. Results show up on the lower part of the screen. In this case, you can see the comment that the stakeholder wrote after attaching the screenshot.

Note
Security Note:Unless you stop recording, everything is recorded—all steps that you take as well as anything you say. If you provide sensitive data such as user names and passwords, you will capture this information in the recording. However, you can always delete a recording by deleting the image for the recording session that appears in the feedback tool's text box.
Reviewers can modify or even delete parts of their feedback, such as a recording, before they submit their feedback.
Reviewers can modify or even delete parts of their feedback, such as a recording, before they submit their feedback.

Review feedback
Open the Feedback query.Or, create a feedback query with the parameters, as shown.You should see a list of all active feedback responses for your team project.
Open the Feedback query.

Or, create a feedback query with the parameters, as shown.

You should see a list of all active feedback responses for your team project.

Open a response item and play or save a recording.
Open a response item and play or save a recording.

Or, you can create a bug or backlog item linked to the feedback.With the feedback experience, you can engage stakeholders frequently to provide continuous feedback. Interacting with your working apps, your stakeholders can record rich and actionable data that the system automatically stores in the form of video or audio recordings, comments, and annotated screenshots. You can then take action on each feedback response by assigning it to a team member or creating bugs or backlog items to the linked feedback.
Or, you can create a bug or backlog item linked to the feedback.

With the feedback experience, you can engage stakeholders frequently to provide continuous feedback. Interacting with your working apps, your stakeholders can record rich and actionable data that the system automatically stores in the form of video or audio recordings, comments, and annotated screenshots. You can then take action on each feedback response by assigning it to a team member or creating bugs or backlog items to the linked feedback.
Related notes
You canchange the audio device or annotation toolusing the Settings icon change settings icon on the Microsoft Feedback Client.
If you access the Microsoft Feedback Client from a remote machine, you canenable remote audio.
You can install the Test & Feedback extension from the Marketplace,Test & Feedback.
Additional resources