Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Automate management of user-defined routes (UDRs) with Azure Virtual Network Manager
Article
2025-04-09
3 contributors
In this article
This article provides an overview of UDR management, why it's important, how it works, and common routing scenarios that you can simplify and automate using UDR management.
What is UDR management?
Azure Virtual Network Manager allows you to describe your desired routing behavior and orchestrate user-defined routes (UDRs) to create and maintain the desired routing behavior. User-defined routes address the need for automation and simplification in managing routing behaviors. Currently, you’d manually create User-Defined Routes (UDRs) or utilize custom scripts. However, these methods are prone to errors and overly complicated. You can utilize the Azure-managed hub in Virtual WAN. This option has certain limitations (such as the inability to customize the hub or lack of IPV6 support) not be relevant to your organization. With UDR management in your virtual network manager, you have a centralized hub for managing and maintaining routing behaviors.
How does UDR management work?
In virtual network manager, you create a routing configuration. Inside the configuration, you create rule collections to describe the UDRs needed for a network group (target network group). In the rule collection, route rules are used to describe the desired routing behavior for the subnets or virtual networks in the target network group. Once the configuration is created, you need todeploy the configurationfor it to apply to your resources. Upon deployment, all routes are stored in a route table located inside a virtual network manager-managed resource group.
Routing configurations create UDRs for you based on what the route rules specify. For example, you can specify that the spoke network group, consisting of two virtual networks, accesses the DNS service's address through a Firewall. Your network manager creates UDRs to make this routing behavior happen.

Routing configurations
Routing configurations are the building blocks of UDR management. They're used to describe the desired routing behavior for a network group. A routing configuration consists of the following settings:
Route collection settings
A route collection consists of the following settings:

Route rule settings
Each route rule consists of the following settings:

For each type of next hop, refer toused-defined routes.
Common destination patterns for IP Addresses
When creating route rules, you can specify the destination type and address. When you specify the destination type as an IP address, you can specify the IP address information. The following are common destination patterns:
The following are common destination patterns:
Use Azure Firewall as the next hop
You can also easily choose an Azure Firewall as the next hop by selectingImport Azure firewall private IP addresswhen creating your routing rule. The IP address of the Azure Firewall is then used as the next hop.

Use more user-defined routes in a single route table
In Azure Virtual Network Manager UDR management, users can now create up to 1,000 user-defined routes in a single route table, compared to the traditional 400-route limit. This higher limit enables more complex routing configurations, such as directing traffic from on-premises data centers through a firewall to each spoke virtual network in a hub-and-spoke topology. This expanded capacity is especially useful for managing traffic inspection and security across large-scale network architectures with numerous spokes.
In a hub-and-spoke topology, it's common for users to require that network traffic be inspected or filtered by a firewall located in the hub virtual network before reaching any spoke virtual networks. Azure Virtual Network Manager supports up to 1,000 spoke virtual networks and allows you to configure the route table associated with the gateway subnet to include up to 1,000 user-defined routes. To set this up, follow these steps:
Create an Azure Virtual Network Manager instance.
Create a network group and include the gateway subnet in this network group.
Establish a routing configuration and create a rule collection, setting the target network group as the one created in Step 2.
Define a routing rule by adding the address spaces of the spoke virtual networks. Set the next hop to "virtual appliance" and specify the firewall's IP address as the next hop address.
Deploy this routing configuration in the region where the gateway subnet is located.
This method allows the route table of the gateway subnet to accommodate up to 1000 user-defined routes. When adding a new spoke virtual network, simply include its address spaces in the existing rule and redeploy the routing configuration.
Common routing scenarios with UDR management
Here are the common routing scenarios that you can simplify and automate by using UDR management.
Adding other virtual networks
When you add other virtual networks to a network group, the routing configuration is automatically applied to the new virtual network. Your network manager automatically detects the new virtual network and applies the routing configuration to it. When you remove a virtual network from the network group, the applied routing configuration is automatically removed as well.
Newly created or deleted subnets have their route table updated with eventual consistency. The processing time can vary based on the volume of subnet creation and deletion.
Impact of UDR Management on routes and route tables
The following are impacts of UDR management with Azure Virtual Network Manager on routes and route tables:
When conflicting routing rules exist (rules with the same destination but different next hops), only one of the conflicting rules will be applied, while the others will be ignored. Any of the conflicting rules can be selected at random. It's important to note that conflicting rules within or across rule collections targeting the same virtual network or subnet aren't supported.
When you create a routing rule with the same destination as an existing route in the route table, the routing rule is ignored.
When a route table with existing UDRs is present, Azure Virtual Network Manager creates a new managed route table that includes both the existing routes and new routes based on the deployed routing configuration.
Other UDRs added to a managed route table remain unaffected and won't be deleted when the routing configuration is removed. Only routes created by Azure Virtual Network Manager are removed.
If an Azure Virtual Network Manager managed UDR is manually edited in the route table, that route is deleted when the configuration is removed from the region.
Azure Virtual Network Manager doesn't interfere with your existing UDRs. It just adds the new UDRs to the current ones, ensuring your routing continues to work as it does now. Also, UDRs for specific Azure services still function along with your network manager's UDRs without encountering new limitations.
Azure Virtual Network Manager requires a managed resource group to store the route table. If an Azure Policy enforces specific tags or properties on resource groups, those policies must be disabled or adjusted for the managed resource group to prevent deployment issues. Furthermore, if you need to delete this managed resource group, ensure that deletion occurs before initiating any new deployments for resources within the same subscription.
UDR management allows users to create up to 1000 UDRs per route table.
Next step
Learn how to create user-defined routes in Azure Virtual Network Manager.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources