Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
SQL vulnerability assessment helps you identify database vulnerabilities
Article
2025-01-27
6 contributors
In this article
SQL vulnerability assessment is an easy-to-configure service that can discover, track, and help you remediate potential database vulnerabilities. Use it to proactively improve your database security for:
Azure SQL DatabaseAzure SQL Managed InstanceAzure Synapse Analytics
Vulnerability assessment is part ofMicrosoft Defender for Azure SQL, a unified package for advanced SQL security capabilities. You can access and manage vulnerability assessment from each SQL database resource in the Azure portal.
Note
Vulnerability assessment is supported for Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Managed Instance, and Azure Synapse Analytics. Databases in Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Managed Instance, and Azure Synapse Analytics are collectively referred to as databases in this article. The server refers to theserverthat hosts databases for Azure SQL Database and Azure Synapse.
What is SQL vulnerability assessment?
SQL vulnerability assessment provides visibility into your security state. It includes actionable steps to resolve security issues and enhance your database security. It helps you monitor a dynamic database environment where changes are difficult to track and improve your SQL security posture.
Vulnerability assessment is a scanning service built into Azure SQL Database. It employs a knowledge base of rules that flag security vulnerabilities. It highlights deviations from best practices, such as misconfigurations, excessive permissions, and unprotected sensitive data.
The rules are based on Microsoft's best practices and focus on the security issues that present the biggest risks to your database and its valuable data. They cover database-level issues and server-level security issues, like server firewall settings and server-level permissions.
Scan results include actionable steps to resolve each issue and provide customized remediation scripts where applicable. Customize an assessment report for your environment by setting an acceptable baseline for:
Permission configurations.
Feature configurations.
Database settings.
What are the express and classic configurations?
Configure vulnerability assessment for your SQL databases with either:
Express configuration– The default procedure that lets you configure vulnerability assessment without relying on external storage to store baseline and scan result data.
Express configuration– The default procedure that lets you configure vulnerability assessment without relying on external storage to store baseline and scan result data.
Classic configuration– The legacy procedure that requires managing an Azure storage account to store baseline and scan result data.
Classic configuration– The legacy procedure that requires managing an Azure storage account to store baseline and scan result data.
What's the difference between the express and classic configuration?
Configuration modes benefits and limitations comparison:
Related content
EnableSQL vulnerability assessments
Express configurationcommon questionsandTroubleshooting.
Learn more aboutMicrosoft Defender for Azure SQL.
Learn more aboutdata discovery and classification.
Learn more aboutstoring vulnerability assessment scan results in a storage account accessible behind firewalls and VNets.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources