Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal
Article
2025-03-17
5 contributors
Applies to: Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal
In this article
This article describes the Microsoft Sentinel experience in the Microsoft Defender portal. Microsoft Sentinel is generally available within Microsoft's unified security operations platform in the Microsoft Defender portal either with Microsoft Defender XDR, or on its own. For more information, see:
What is Microsoft's unified security operations platform?
Connect Microsoft Sentinel to Microsoft Defender XDR
Microsoft Sentinel feature support for Azure commercial/other clouds
New and improved capabilities
The following table describes the new or improved capabilities available in the Defender portal with the integration of Microsoft Sentinel. Microsoft continues to innovate in this new experience with features that might be exclusive to the Defender portal.
The following table describes the additional capabilities available in the Defender portal with the integration of Microsoft Sentinel and Microsoft Defender XDR as part of Microsoft's unified security operations platform.
Capability differences between portals
Most Microsoft Sentinel capabilities are available in both the Azure and Defender portals. In the Defender portal, some Microsoft Sentinel experiences open out to the Azure portal for you to complete a task.
This section covers the Microsoft Sentinel capabilities or integrations that are only available in either the Azure portal or Defender portal or other significant differences between the portals. It excludes the Microsoft Sentinel experiences that open the Azure portal from the Defender portal.
Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Microsoft Defender for Identity
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 (Preview)
Microsoft Defender XDR
Subscription-based Microsoft Defender for Cloud (Legacy)
Tenant-based Microsoft Defender for Cloud (Preview)In the Azure portal, these data connectors are still listed with the installed data connectors in Microsoft Sentinel.
Limited or unavailable capabilities
When you onboard Microsoft Sentinel to the Defender portal without Defender XDR or other services enabled, the following features that show in the Defender portal are currently limited or unavailable.
The following limitations also apply to Microsoft Sentinel in Defender portal without Defender XDR or other services enabled:
New Microsoft Sentinel customers aren't eligible to onboard a Log Analytics workspace that's created in the Israel region. To onboard to the Defender portal, create another workspace for Microsoft Sentinel in a different region. This additional workspace doesn't need to contain any data.
Customers that use Microsoft Sentinel user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) are provided with a limited version of theIdentityInfo table.
Quick reference
Some Microsoft Sentinel capabilities, like the unified incident queue, are integrated with Microsoft Defender XDR in Microsoft's unified security operations platform. Many other Microsoft Sentinel capabilities are available in theMicrosoft Sentinelsection of the Defender portal.
The following image shows theMicrosoft Sentinelmenu in the Defender portal:

The following sections describe where to find Microsoft Sentinel features in the Defender portal. The sections are organized as Microsoft Sentinel is in the Azure portal.
General
The following table lists the changes in navigation between the Azure and Defender portals for theGeneralsection in the Azure portal.
Threat management
The following table lists the changes in navigation between the Azure and Defender portals for theThreat managementsection in the Azure portal.
Content management
The following table lists the changes in navigation between the Azure and Defender portals for theContent managementsection in the Azure portal.
Configuration
The following table lists the changes in navigation between the Azure and Defender portals for theConfigurationsection in the Azure portal.
Related content
Microsoft Defender XDR integration with Microsoft Sentinel
Connect Microsoft Sentinel to Microsoft Defender XDR
Microsoft Defender XDR documentation
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources