Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Resource Health Check (RHC) Support for Azure Cloud Services (Classic)
Article
2024-07-24
1 contributor
In this article
Important
Cloud Services (classic) is now deprecated for all customers as of September 1st, 2024. Any existing running deployments will be stopped and shut down by Microsoft and the data will be permanently lost starting October 2024. New deployments should use the new Azure Resource Manager based deployment modelAzure Cloud Services (extended support).
This article  talks about Resource Health Check (RHC) Support forMicrosoft Azure Cloud Services (Classic)
Azure Resource Healthfor cloud services helps you diagnose and get support for service problems that affect your Cloud Service deployment, Roles & Role Instances. It reports on the current and past health of your cloud services at Deployment, Role & Role Instance level.
Azure status reports on problems that affect a broad set of Azure customers. Resource Health gives you a personalized dashboard of the health of your resources. Resource Health shows all the times that your resources were unavailable because of Azure service problems. This data makes it easy for you to see if a Service Level Agreement (SLA) was violated.

How health is checked and reported?
Resource health is reported at a deployment or role level. The health check happens at role instance level. We aggregate the status and report it on Role level. For example, if all role instances are available, then the role status is available. Similarly, we aggregate the health status of all roles and report it on deployment level. For example, if all roles are available, then deployment status becomes available.
Why I can't see health status for my staging slot deployment?
Resource health checks only work for production slot deployment. Staging slot deployment isn't yet supported.
Does Resource Health Check also check the health of the application?
No, health check only happens for role instances and it doesn't monitor Application health. For example, even if one out of three role instances are unhealthy, the application can still be available. RHC doesn't useload balancer probesor Guest agent probe. Therefore,
Customers should continue to using load balancer probes to monitor the health of their application.
What are the annotations for Cloud Services?
Annotations are the health status of the deployment or roles. There are different annotations based on health status, reason for status change, etc.
What does it mean by Role Instance being "unavailable"?
Unavailable means the role instance isn't emitting a healthy signal to the platform. Check the role instance status for detailed explanation of why healthy signal isn't being emitted.
What does it mean by deployment being "unknown"?
Unknown means the aggregated health of the Cloud Service deployment can't be determined. Usually, unknown indicates one of the following scenarios:
There's no production deployment created for the Cloud Service
The deployment was newly created (and that Azure is starting to collect health events)
The platform is having issues collecting health events for this deployment.
Why does Role Instance Annotations mention VMs instead of Role Instances?
Since Role Instances are, in essence, virtual machines (VMs), and the health check for VMs is reused for Role Instances, the VM term is used to represent Role Instances.
Cloud Services (Deployment Level) Annotations & their meanings
Cloud Services (Role Instance Level) Annotations & their meanings
Additional resources