Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Lighthouse?
Article
2025-01-17
5 contributors
In this article
Azure Lighthouse enables multitenant management with scalability, higher automation, and enhanced governance across resources.
With Azure Lighthouse, service providers can deliver managed services usingcomprehensive and robust tooling built into the Azure platform. Customers maintain control over who has access to their tenant, which resources they can access, and what actions can be taken.Enterprise organizationsmanaging resources across multiple tenants can use Azure Lighthouse to streamline management tasks.
Cross-tenant management experienceslet you work more efficiently with Azure services such asAzure Policy,Microsoft Sentinel,Azure Arc, and many more. Users can see what changes were made and by whomin the activity log, which is stored in the customer's tenant and can be viewed by users in the managing tenant.

Benefits
Azure Lighthouse helps service providers efficiently build and deliver managed services. Benefits include:
Management at scale: Customer engagement and life-cycle operations to manage customer resources are easier and more scalable. Existing APIs, management tools, and workflows can be used with delegated resources, includingmachines hosted outside of Azure, regardless of the regions in which they're located.
Greater visibility and control for customers: Customers have precise control over the scopes they delegate and the permissions that are allowed. They canaudit service provider actionsand remove access completely at any time.
Comprehensive and unified platform tooling: Azure Lighthouse works with existing tools and APIs,Azure managed applications, and partner programs like theCloud Solution Provider (CSP) program. This flexibility supports key service provider scenarios, including multiple licensing models such as EA, CSP and pay-as-you-go. You can integrate Azure Lighthouse into your existing workflows and applications, and track your impact on customer engagements bylinking your partner ID.
Capabilities
Azure Lighthouse includes multiple ways to streamline engagement and management:
Azure delegated resource management:Manage your customers' Azure resources securely from within your own tenant, without having to switch context and control planes. Customer subscriptions and resource groups can be delegated to specified users and roles in the managing tenant, with the ability to remove access as needed.
New Azure portal experiences: View cross-tenant information in theMy customerspagein the Azure portal, orwork directly in the context of a delegated subscription. Customers can view and manage provider access in theService providerspage.
Azure Resource Manager templates: Use ARM templates toonboard delegated customer resourcesandperform cross-tenant management tasks.
Managed Service offers in Azure Marketplace:Offer your services to customersthrough private or public offers, and automatically onboard them to Azure Lighthouse.
Tip
A similar offering,Microsoft 365 Lighthouse, helps service providers onboard, monitor, and manage their Microsoft 365 customers at scale.
Pricing and availability
There are no additional costs associated with using Azure Lighthouse to manage Azure resources. Any Azure customer or partner can use Azure Lighthouse.
Cross-region and cloud considerations
Azure Lighthouse is a nonregional service. You can manage delegated resources that are located in differentregions. However, you can't delegate resources across anational cloudand the Azure public cloud, or across two separate national clouds.
Support for Azure Lighthouse
For help with Azure Lighthouse,open a support requestin the Azure portal. Describe your issue to get solutions and support. ChooseLighthouse(underMonitoring & Management) as the service if it isn't automatically selected.
Next steps
Learnhow Azure Lighthouse works on a technical level.
Explorecross-tenant management experiences.
See how touse Azure Lighthouse within an enterprise.
ViewavailabilityandFedRAMP and DoD CC SRG audit scopedetails for Azure Lighthouse.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources