Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Firewall Manager?
Article
2025-01-27
8 contributors
In this article
Azure Firewall Manager is a security management service that provides central security policy and route management for cloud-based security perimeters.
Firewall Manager can provide security management for two network architecture types:
Secured virtual hubAnAzure Virtual WAN Hubis a Microsoft-managed resource that lets you easily create hub and spoke architectures. When security and routing policies are associated with such a hub, it's referred to as asecured virtual hub.
Secured virtual hub
AnAzure Virtual WAN Hubis a Microsoft-managed resource that lets you easily create hub and spoke architectures. When security and routing policies are associated with such a hub, it's referred to as asecured virtual hub.
Hub virtual networkThis is a standard Azure virtual network that you create and manage yourself. When security policies are associated with such a hub, it's referred to as ahub virtual network. At this time, only Azure Firewall Policy is supported. You can peer spoke virtual networks that contain your workload servers and services. You can also manage firewalls in standalone virtual networks that aren't peered to any spoke.
Hub virtual network
This is a standard Azure virtual network that you create and manage yourself. When security policies are associated with such a hub, it's referred to as ahub virtual network. At this time, only Azure Firewall Policy is supported. You can peer spoke virtual networks that contain your workload servers and services. You can also manage firewalls in standalone virtual networks that aren't peered to any spoke.
For a detailed comparison ofsecured virtual hubandhub virtual networkarchitectures, seeWhat are the Azure Firewall Manager architecture options?.

Azure Firewall Manager features
Azure Firewall Manager offers the following features:
Central Azure Firewall deployment and configuration​
You can centrally deploy and configure multiple Azure Firewall instances that span different Azure regions and subscriptions.
Hierarchical policies (global and local)​
You can use Azure Firewall Manager to centrally manage Azure Firewall policies across multiple secured virtual hubs. Your central IT teams can author global firewall policies to enforce organization wide firewall policy across teams. Locally authored firewall policies allow a DevOps self-service model for better agility.
Integrated with partner security-as-a-service for advanced security
In addition to Azure Firewall, you can integrate partner security as a service (SECaaS) providers to provide more network protection for your virtual network and branch Internet connections.
This feature is available only with secured virtual hub deployments.
Virtual network to Internet (V2I) traffic filteringFilter outbound virtual network traffic with your preferred partner security provider.Use advanced user-aware Internet protection for your cloud workloads running on Azure.
Virtual network to Internet (V2I) traffic filtering
Filter outbound virtual network traffic with your preferred partner security provider.
Use advanced user-aware Internet protection for your cloud workloads running on Azure.
Branch to Internet (B2I) traffic filteringUse your Azure connectivity and global distribution to easily add partner filtering for branch to Internet scenarios.
Branch to Internet (B2I) traffic filtering
Use your Azure connectivity and global distribution to easily add partner filtering for branch to Internet scenarios.
For more information about security partner providers, seeWhat are Azure Firewall Manager security partner providers?
Centralized route management
Easily route traffic to your secured hub for filtering and logging without the need to manually set up User Defined Routes (UDR) on spoke virtual networks.
This feature is available only with secured virtual hub deployments.
You can use partner providers for Branch to Internet (B2I) traffic filtering, side by side with Azure Firewall for Branch to virtual network (B2V), virtual network to virtual network (V2V) and virtual network to Internet (V2I).
DDoS protection plan
You can associate your virtual networks with a DDoS protection plan within Azure Firewall Manager. For more information, seeConfigure an Azure DDoS Protection Plan using Azure Firewall Manager.
Manage Web Application Firewall policies
You can centrally create and associate Web Application Firewall (WAF) policies for your application delivery platforms, including Azure Front Door and Azure Application Gateway. For more information, seeManage Web Application Firewall policies.
Region availability
Azure Firewall Policies can be used across regions. For example, you can create a policy in West US, and use it in East US.
Known issues
Azure Firewall Manager has the following known issues:
Next steps
Learn module: Introduction to Azure Firewall Manager
ReviewAzure Firewall Manager deployment overview
Learn aboutsecured Virtual Hubs
Learn more about Azure network security
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources