Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Backup and restore for SQL Server on Azure VMs
Article
2024-06-18
16 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL Server on Azure VM
This article provides guidance on the backup and restore options available for SQL Server running on a Windows virtual machine (VM) in Azure. Azure Storage maintains three copies of every Azure VM disk to guarantee protection against data loss or physical data corruption. Thus, unlike SQL Server on-premises, you don't need to focus on hardware failures. However, you should still back up your SQL Server databases to protect against application or user errors, such as inadvertent data insertions or deletions. In this situation, it is important to be able to restore to a specific point in time.
The first part of this article provides an overview of the available backup and restore options. This is followed by sections that provide more information on each strategy.
Backup and restore options
The following table provides information on various backup and restore options for SQL Server on Azure VMs:
The following sections describe each option in more detail. The final section of this article provides a summary in the form of a feature matrix.
Automated Backup
Automated Backup provides an automatic backup service for SQL Server Standard and Enterprise editions running on a Windows VM in Azure. This service is provided by theSQL Server IaaS Agent Extension, which is automatically installed on SQL Server Windows virtual machine images in the Azure portal.
All databases are backed up to an Azure storage account that you configure. Backups can be encrypted and the metadata is retained inmsdbfor up to 90 days, though the service doesn't automatically delete backups past their retention date. You can use alifecycle management policyfor your storage account to balance backup retention with cost management according to your business needs.
msdb
SQL Server 2016 and higher VMs offer more customization options with Automated Backup. These improvements include:
System database backups
Manual backup schedule and time window
Full and log file backup frequency
To restore a database, you must locate the required backup file(s) in the storage account and perform a restore on your SQL VM using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) or Transact-SQL commands.
For more information on how to configure Automated Backup for SQL VMs, see one of the following articles:
SQL Server 2016 and later:Automated Backup for Azure Virtual Machines
SQL Server 2014:Automated Backup for SQL Server 2014 Virtual Machines
Azure Backup for SQL VMs
Azure Backupprovides an Enterprise class backup capability for SQL Server on Azure VMs. All backups are stored and managed in a Recovery Services vault. There are several advantages that this solution provides, especially for Enterprises:
Zero-infrastructure backup: You do not have to manage backup servers or storage locations.
Scale: Protect many SQL VMs and thousands of databases.
Pay-As-You-Go: This capability is a separate service provided by Azure Backup, but as with all Azure services, you only pay for what you use.
Central management and monitoring: Centrally manage all of your backups, including other workloads that Azure Backup supports, from a single dashboard in Azure.
Policy driven backup and retention: Create standard backup policies for regular backups. Establish retention policies to maintain backups for years.
Support for SQL Always On: Detect and protect a SQL Server Always On configuration and honor the backup Availability Group backup preference.
15-minute Recovery Point Objective (RPO): Configure SQL transaction log backups up to every 15 minutes.
Point in time restore: Use the portal to recover databases to a specific point in time without having to manually restore multiple full, differential, and log backups.
Consolidated email alerts for failures: Configure consolidated email notifications for any failures.
Azure role-based access control: Determine who can manage backup and restore operations through the portal.
This Azure Backup solution for SQL VMs is generally available. For more information, seeBack up SQL Server database to Azure.
Manual backup
If you want to manually manage backup and restore operations on your SQL VMs, there are several options depending on the version of SQL Server you are using. For an overview of backup and restore, see one of the following articles based on your version of SQL Server:
Backup and restore for SQL Server 2016 and later
Backup and restore for SQL Server 2014
Backup and restore for SQL Server 2012
Note
SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 R2 are out of extended support and no longer available from the Azure Marketplace.
The following sections describe several manual backup and restore options in more detail.
Backup to attached disks
For SQL Server on Azure VMs, you can use native backup and restore techniques using attached disks on the VM for the destination of the backup files. However, there is a limit to the number of disks you can attach to an Azure virtual machine, based on thesize of the virtual machine. There is also the overhead of disk management to consider.
For an example of how to manually create a full database backup using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) or Transact-SQL, seeCreate a Full Database Backup.
Backup to URL
Beginning with SQL Server 2012 SP1 CU2, you can back up and restore directly to Microsoft Azure Blob storage, which is also known as backup to URL. SQL Server 2016 also introduced the following enhancements for this feature:
For more information, see the one of the following articles based on your version of SQL Server:
SQL Server 2016 and later:SQL Server Backup to URL
SQL Server 2014:SQL Server 2014 Backup to URL
SQL Server 2012:SQL Server 2012 Backup to URL
Managed Backup
Beginning with SQL Server 2014, Managed Backup automates the creation of backups to Azure storage. Behind the scenes, Managed Backup makes use of the Backup to URL feature described in the previous section of this article. Managed Backup is also the underlying feature that supports the SQL Server VM Automated Backup service.
Beginning in SQL Server 2016, Managed Backup got additional options for scheduling, system database backup, and full and log backup frequency.
For more information, see one of the following articles based on your version of SQL Server:
Managed Backup to Microsoft Azure for SQL Server 2016 and later
Managed Backup to Microsoft Azure for SQL Server 2014
Decision matrix
The following table summarizes the capabilities of each backup and restore option for SQL Server virtual machines in Azure.
Next steps
If you are planning your deployment of SQL Server on Azure VM, you can find provisioning guidance in the following guide:How to provision a Windows SQL Server virtual machine in the Azure portal.
Although backup and restore can be used to migrate your data, there are potentially easier data migration paths to SQL Server on VM. For a full discussion of migration options and recommendations, seeMigration guide: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources