Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Oracle on Azure
Article
2023-12-13
3 contributors
In this article
Customers running Oracle workloads on-premises can accelerate their cloud adoption by migrating their workloads to Azure. You have a choice to either lift and shift your Oracle workloads to Azure virtual machines or to Oracle Database@Azure. Additionally, you can also migrate to our Azure Database services like Azure SQL, Azure Database for PostgreSQL based on the requirements of your organization.
Oracle on Azure virtual machines
Microsoft Azure is anauthorized cloud providerfor customers to run Oracle workloads. Customers have been migrating their Oracle databases, and enterprise applications such as Siebel, PeopleSoft, JD Edwards, E-Business Suite, or customized WebLogic server applications to Azure infrastructure as part of their cloud migration journey.
Use Oracle on Azure virtual machines to run Oracle Database workloads on virtual machines in the cloud. This means you can easily deploy and manage Oracle databases without worrying about the underlying infrastructure. Whether you're a developer, a data analyst, or a business owner, Oracle on Azure Virtual Machines provides a flexible and scalable platform for running your Oracle databases.
Customers have a choice to run their Oracle workloads on Oracle published Oracle Linux image in the Azure Marketplace, RHEL or other endorsed OS with a flexible VM size and storage choice in native disk storage, file storage, block storage and as well as partner driven storage solutions.
Customers can either self-manage these Oracle workloads or can work with our partners for a managed database offering on Azure virtual machines.
For more information, see the Oracle workloads on Azure Virtual machinedocumentation.
Oracle Database@Azure
Oracle Database@Azure is our newest offering in partnership with Oracle that’s now generally available. Oracle Database@Azure is an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) database service offering secure, highly available, and highly performant mission critical databases running Oracle Exadata infrastructure in Azure datacenters.
You can purchase Oracle Database@Azure offering via Azure Marketplace. You can decrement your Microsoft Azure Consumption Commitment (MACC) for this offering along with a choice to either bring your own Oracle Database license or go with a license included option. You can use your Oracle support rewards to reduce your Oracle tech license support bill.
You can securely deploy the Exadata infrastructure and Oracle databases using your familiar Azure and OCI interfaces within your Azure virtual network for a low latency connectivity to your applications and the rest of the Azure services.
You can migrate your Oracle Databases to Oracle Database@Azure with familiar Oracle tooling like Oracle Zero Downtime Migration, Data Guard or GoldenGate. Oracle Database@Azure is a fully OCI managed and supported offering in partnership with Azure.
For more information, see the Oracle Database@Azuredocumentation.
Next steps
Onboard with Oracle Database@Azure
Provision and manage Oracle Database@Azure
Oracle Database@Azure support information
Network planning for Oracle Database@Azure
Oracle Exadata Database Service on Dedicated Infrastructure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources