Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Language Understanding (LUIS)?
Article
2024-09-27
2 contributors
In this article
Important
LUIS will be retired on October 1st 2025 and starting April 1st 2023 you will not be able to create new LUIS resources. We recommendmigrating your LUIS applicationstoconversational language understandingto benefit from continued product support and multilingual capabilities.
Language Understanding (LUIS) is a cloud-based conversational AI service that applies custom machine-learning intelligence to a user's conversational, natural language text to predict overall meaning, and pull out relevant, detailed information. LUIS provides access through itscustom portal,APIsandSDK client libraries.
For first time users, follow these steps tosign in to LUIS portalTo get started, you can try a LUISprebuilt domain app.
This documentation contains the following article types:
Quickstartsare getting-started instructions to guide you through making requests to the service.
How-to guidescontain instructions for using the service in more specific or customized ways.
Conceptsprovide in-depth explanations of the service functionality and features.
Tutorialsare longer guides that show you how to use the service as a component in broader business solutions.
What does LUIS Offer
Simplicity: LUIS offloads you from the need of in-house AI expertise or any prior machine learning knowledge. With only a few clicks you can build your own conversational AI application. You can build your custom application by following one of ourquickstarts, or you can use one of ourprebuilt domainapps.
Security, Privacy and Compliance: LUIS is backed by Azure infrastructure, which offers enterprise-grade security, privacy, and compliance. Your data remains yours; you can delete your data at any time. Your data is encrypted while it’s in storage. Learn more about thishere.
Integration: easily integrate your LUIS app with other Microsoft services likeMicrosoft Bot framework,QnA Maker, andSpeech service.
LUIS Scenarios
Build an enterprise-grade conversational bot: This reference architecture describes how to build an enterprise-grade conversational bot (chatbot) using the Azure Bot Framework.
Commerce Chatbot: Together, the Azure AI Bot Service and Language Understanding service enable developers to create conversational interfaces for various scenarios like banking, travel, and entertainment.
Controlling IoT devices using a Voice Assistant: Create seamless conversational interfaces with all of your internet-accessible devices-from your connected television or fridge to devices in a connected power plant.
Application Development life cycle

Plan: Identify the scenarios that users might use your application for. Define the actions and relevant information that needs to be recognized.
Build: Use your authoring resource to develop your app. Start by definingintentsandentities. Then, add trainingutterancesfor each intent.
Test and Improve: Start testing your model with other utterances to get a sense of how the app behaves, and you can decide if any improvement is needed. You can improve your application by following thesebest practices.
Publish: Deploy your app for prediction and query the endpoint using your prediction resource. Learn more about authoring and prediction resourceshere.
Connect: Connect to other services such asMicrosoft Bot framework,QnA Maker, andSpeech service.
Refine:Review endpoint utterancesto improve your application with real life examples
Learn more about planning and building your applicationhere.
Next steps
What's newwith the service and documentation
Build a LUIS app
API reference
Best practices
Developer resourcesfor LUIS.
Plan your appwithintentsandentities.
Additional resources