Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft Azure Network Adapter overview
Article
2025-03-13
3 contributors
In this article
Learn how to use the Microsoft Azure Network Adapter (MANA) component of Azure Boost to improve the performance and availability of virtual machines (VMs) in Azure. MANA is a next-generation network interface that provides stable forward-compatible device drivers for Windows and Linux operating systems. MANA hardware and software are engineered by Microsoft and take advantage of the latest advancements in cloud networking technology.
Compatibility
MANA supports several VM operating systems. Although your VM might be running a supported operating system, you might need to update the kernel (Linux) or install drivers (Windows) to leverage MANA or the latest features.
MANA maintains feature parity with previous Azure networking features. VMs run on hardware with both Mellanox and MANA NICs, so existingmlx4andmlx5support still needs to be present.
mlx4
mlx5
Supported Azure Marketplace images
SeveralAzure Marketplaceimages have built-in support for the Ethernet driver in MANA.
Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.8
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.10
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.2
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.4
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15 SP4
Debian 12 "Bookworm"
Oracle Linux 8.0 UEK R7
Oracle Linux 9.0 UEK R7
Note
Newer MANA features are under active development and Linux distribution vendors partner with Microsoft to update their kernels with upstream changes. Cadence of updates varies by distribution vendor. The newer your distribution and kernel is, the more likely it is to have the latest updates.
Windows Server 2019
Windows Server 2022
Windows Server 2025
Custom images and legacy VMs
To maximize performance, we recommend using an operating system that supports MANA. If the operating system doesn't support MANA, network connectivity is provided through the hypervisor's virtual switch. The virtual switch is also used during some infrastructure servicing events where the Virtual Function (VF) is revoked.
DPDK on MANA hardware
For information about using DPDK on MANA hardware, seeMicrosoft Azure Network Adapter and DPDK on Linux.
Note
A 6.2 or later kernel is required for RDMA/InfiniBand and Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK). If you use an earlier Linux image from Azure Marketplace, you need to update the kernel.
Evaluating performance
Differences in VM types, operating systems, applications, and tuning parameters can affect network performance in Azure. For this reason, we recommend that you benchmark and test your workloads to achieve the expected network performance.
For information on testing and optimizing network performance in Azure, seeTCP/IP performance tuning for Azure VMsandVirtual machine network bandwidth.
Getting started with MANA
Tutorials for each supported OS type are available to help you get started:
For Linux support, seeLinux VMs with Azure MANA.
For Windows support, seeWindows VMs with Azure MANA.
Next steps
TCP/IP performance tuning for Azure VMs
Proximity placement groups
Monitoring Azure virtual networks
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources