Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure AI Foundry?
Article
2025-04-04
1 contributor
In this article
Azure AI Foundryprovides a unified platform for enterprise AI operations, model builders, and application development. This foundation combines production-grade infrastructure with friendly interfaces, ensuring organizations can build and operate AI applications with confidence.
Azure AI Foundryis designed for developers to:
Build generative AI applications on an enterprise-grade platform.
Explore, build, test, and deploy using cutting-edge AI tools and ML models, grounded in responsible AI practices.
Collaborate with a team for the full life-cycle of application development.
With Azure AI Foundry, you can explore a wide variety of models, services and capabilities, and get to building AI applications that best serve your goals. Azure AI Foundry facilitates scalability for transforming proof of concepts into full-fledged production applications with ease. Continuous monitoring and refinement support long-term success.

When you come to the Azure AI Foundry portal, you find that all paths lead to a project. Projects are easy-to-manage containers for your work—and the key to collaboration, organization, and connecting data and other services. Before you create your first project, you can explore models from many providers, and try out AI services and capabilities. When you're ready to move forward with a model or service, Azure AI Foundry guides you to create a project. Once you are in a project, all of the Azure AI capabilities come to life.
Note
If you want to focus only on Azure OpenAI models and capabilities, we have a place where you can work with your Azure OpenAI resource instead of a project. For more information, seeWhat is Azure OpenAI in Azure AI Foundry?. However, for most situations, we recommend an Azure AI Foundry project to build with a wide range of AI models, functionalities and tools as you build, test, and deploy AI solutions.
Work in an Azure AI Foundry project
An Azure AI Foundry project is where you do most of your development work. You can work with your project in the Azure AI Foundry, or using the SDK in your preferred development environment. Once you have a project, you can connect to it from your code. You can explore models and capabilities before creating a project, but once you're ready to build, customize, test, and operationalize, a project is where you'll want to be.
When you choose to deploy a model or work with AI Services, you're prompted to select a project if you aren't already in one.
Once you're in a project, you'll see an overview of what you can do with it on theOverviewpage.

The Azure AI Foundry portal is organized around your goals. Generally, as you develop with Azure AI, you'll likely go through a few distinct stages of project development:
Define and explore. In this stage you define your project goals, and then explore and test models and services against your use case to find the ones that enable you to achieve your goals.
Build and customize. In this stage, you're actively building solutions and applications with the models, tools, and capabilities you selected. You can also customize models to perform better for your use case by fine-tuning, grounding in your data, and more. Building and customizing might be something you choose to do in the Azure AI Foundry portal, or through code and the Azure AI Foundry SDKs. Either way, a project provides you with everything you need.Once you're actively developing in your project, theOverviewpage shows the things you want easy access to, like your endpoints and keys.
Once you're actively developing in your project, theOverviewpage shows the things you want easy access to, like your endpoints and keys.
Assess and improve. In this stage, you're looking for where you can improve your application's performance. You might choose to use tools like tracing to debug your application or compare evaluations to hone in on how you want your application to behave. You can also integrate with safety & security systems so you can be confident when you take your application to production.
If you're an admin, or leading a development team, and need to manage the team's resources, project access, quota, and more, you can do that in the Management Center.
Using a project also enables connectivity to other services such as Azure AI services and Azure Storage. For more information, see theAzure AI Foundry architecture.
Management center
The management center is a part of the Azure AI Foundry portal that streamlines governance and management activities. In the management center, you can view and manage:
Projects and resources
Quotas and usage metrics
Govern access and permissions
For more information, seeManagement center overview.
Pricing and billing
Azure AI Foundry is monetized through individual products customer access and consume in the platform, including API and models, complete AI toolchain, and responsible AI and enterprise grade production at scale products. Each product has its own billing model and price.
The platform is free to use and explore. Pricing occurs at deployment level.
Using Azure AI Foundry also incurs cost associated with the underlying services. To learn more, readPlan and manage costs for Azure AI services.
Region availability
Azure AI Foundry is available in most regions where Azure AI services are available. For more information, seeregion support for Azure AI Foundry.
How to get access
You canexplore Azure AI Foundry portal (including the model catalog)without signing in.
But for full functionality there are some requirements:
You need anAzure account.
Related content
Quickstart: Use the chat playground in Azure AI Foundry portal
Build a custom chat app in Python using the Azure AI SDK
Create a project
Get started with an AI template
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources