Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Photon?
Article
2025-01-14
2 contributors
In this article
This article explains the benefits of running your workloads on the Photon query engine.
Photon is a high-performance Azure Databricks-native vectorized query engine that runs your SQL workloads and DataFrame API calls faster to reduce your total cost per workload. Photon is compatible with Apache Spark APIs, so it works with your existing code.
Photon features
The following are key features and advantages of using Photon.
Support for SQL and equivalent DataFrame operations with Delta and Parquet tables.
Accelerated queries that process data faster and include aggregations and joins.
Faster performance when data is accessed repeatedly from the disk cache.
Robust scan performance on tables with many columns and many small files.
Faster Delta and Parquet writing usingUPDATE,DELETE,MERGE INTO,INSERT, andCREATE TABLE AS SELECT, including wide tables that contain thousands of columns.
UPDATE
DELETE
MERGE INTO
INSERT
CREATE TABLE AS SELECT
Replaces sort-merge joins with hash-joins.
For AI and ML workloads, Photon improves performance for applications using Spark SQL, Spark DataFrames, feature engineering, GraphFrames, and xgboost4j.
Photon enablement
Photon enablement varies by compute type:
Photon runs by default on SQL warehouses and serverless compute for notebooks and workflows.
Photon is enabled by default on compute runningDatabricks Runtime 9.1 LTSand above.
Photon can be enabled manually on compute runningDatabricks Runtime 15.2 for Machine Learning (EoS)or above.
Configure Photon enablement
To enable or disable Photon on all-purpose and jobs compute, select theUse Photon Accelerationcheckbox in theCompute UI.
Photon is not enabled by default on any compute created with theClusters APIorJobs API. To enable Photon, you must set theruntime_engineattribute toPHOTON.
runtime_engine
PHOTON
Supported instance types
Photon supports a number of instance types on the driver and worker nodes. Photon instance types consume DBUs at a different rate than the same instance type running the non-Photon runtime. For more information about Photon instances and DBU consumption, see theAzure Databricks pricing page.
Supported operators, expressions, and data types
The following are the operators, expressions, and data types that Photon covers.
Operators
Scan, Filter, Project
Hash Aggregate/Join/Shuffle
Nested-Loop Join
Null-Aware Anti Join
Union, Expand, ScalarSubquery
Delta/Parquet Write Sink
Sort
Window Function
Expressions
Comparison / Logic
Arithmetic / Math (most)
Conditional (IF, CASE, etc.)
String (common ones)
Casts
Aggregates(most common ones)
Date/Timestamp
Data types
Byte/Short/Int/Long
Boolean
String/Binary
Decimal
Float/Double
Date/Timestamp
Struct
Array
Map
Features that require Photon
The following are features that require Photon.
Predictive I/O for read and write. SeeWhat is predictive I/O?.
H3 geospatial expressions. SeeH3 geospatial functions.
Dynamic file pruning inMERGE,UPDATE, andDELETEstatements. SeeDynamic file pruning.
MERGE
UPDATE
DELETE
Limitations
Structured Streaming: Photon currently supports stateless streaming with Delta, Parquet, CSV, and JSON. Stateless Kafka and Kinesis streaming is supported when writing to a Delta or Parquet sink.
Photon does not support UDFs, RDD APIs, or Dataset APIs.
Photon doesn’t impact queries that normally run in under two seconds.
If your workload hits an unsupported operation, the compute resource switches to the standard runtime engine for the remainder of the workload.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources