Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) STAR Attestation
Article
2023-04-05
1 contributor
In this article
CSA STAR Attestation overview
TheCloud Security Alliance (CSA)is a nonprofit organization led by a broad coalition of industry practitioners, corporations, and other important stakeholders. It's dedicated to defining best practices to help ensure a more secure cloud computing environment, and to helping potential cloud customers make informed decisions when transitioning their IT operations to the cloud. In 2013, the CSA and the British Standards Institution launched theSecurity, Trust, Assurance, and Risk (STAR)registry, a free, publicly accessible registry in which cloud service providers (CSPs) can publish their CSA-related assessments.
For security assessments, CSPs use theCloud Controls Matrix (CCM)to evaluate and document their security controls. CCM is a controls framework composed of 197 control objectives covering fundamental security principles across 17 domains to help cloud customers assess the overall security risk of a CSP.
STAR providestwo levels of assurance:
Level 1:Self-Assessment based on theConsensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ). Level 1 is an introductory offering, which is free and open to all CSPs. The CAIQ contains more than 250 questions based on the CCM that a customer or cloud auditor may want to ask of CSPs to assess their compliance with CSA best practices.
Level 2:Independent third-party assessments such as CSA STAR Attestation and CSA STAR Certification. These assessments combine established industry standards with criteria specified in the CCM.
Note
CSA has releasedCCM v4, a major update to the CCM that has 197 control objectives structured in 17 domains. CCM and CAIQ have been combined in version 4. CSA has also provided aCCM v4 transition timelinefor cloud service providers and other organizations to start using version 4.
CSA STAR Attestation involves a rigorous independent third-party audit of a cloud provider's security posture based on a SOC 2 Type 2 audit with CCM criteria. The independent auditor that evaluates a cloud provider's offerings for STAR Attestation must be a certified public accountant (CPA) and is required to have the CSA Certificate in Cloud Security Knowledge (CCSK).
TheAzure SOC 2 Type 2audit is based on the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Trust Services Principles and Criteria, including security, availability, confidentiality, and processing integrity, and the criteria in CCM v4. STAR Attestation provides an auditor's findings on the design suitability and operating effectiveness of Azure SOC 2 controls. The objective is to meet both the AICPA criteria mentioned previously and requirements set forth in the CCM.
Applicability
Azure
Azure Government
Services in scope
Microsoft cloud services in scope for the Azure CSA STAR Attestation are the same services assessed as part of theAzure SOC 2 Type 2 attestation.
Audit reports and certificates
For instructions on how to access audit reports and certificates, seeAudit documentation.
To download the Azure CSA STAR Attestation, see theCSA STAR registry for Microsoft.
For Azure CCM control coverage, you can access the Azure SOC 2 Type 2 attestation report from the Service Trust Portal (STP)SOC reportssection.
Frequently asked questions
Which industry standards does the CSA CCM align with?The CCM maps to industry-accepted security standards, regulations, and control frameworks such as ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, NIST SP 800-53, PCI DSS, AICPA Trust Services Criteria, and others. For the most current list, visit theCSA website.
Where can I see the CSA STAR Attestation for Azure and other Microsoft online services?You can download the CSA STAR Attestation for Azure directly from theCSA STAR registry. For detailed insight into services in scope and CCM control coverage, download the Azure SOC 2 Type 2 attestation report. For links to audit documentation, seeAudit reports and certificates.
You must have an existing subscription or free trial account inAzureorAzure Governmentto sign in. You can then download audit certificates, assessment reports, and other applicable documents to help you with your own regulatory requirements.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)
CSACloud Controls Matrix (CCM)
CSAConsensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)
CSASecurity, Trust, Assurance, and Risk (STAR) registry
Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365 CAIQ reports
Additional resources