Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What are Microsoft Entra audit logs?
Article
2025-01-31
24 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Entra activity logs include audit logs, which is a comprehensive report on every logged event in Microsoft Entra ID. Changes to applications, groups, users, and licenses are all captured in the Microsoft Entra audit logs.
Two other activity logs are also available to help monitor the health of your tenant:
Sign-ins– Information about sign-ins and how your resources are used by your users.
Provisioning– Activities performed by the provisioning service, such as the creation of a group in ServiceNow or a user imported from Workday.
This article gives you an overview of the audit logs, such as the information they provide and what kinds of questions they can answer.
What can you do with audit logs?
Audit logs in Microsoft Entra ID provide access to system activity records, often needed for compliance. You can get answers to questions related to users, groups, and applications.
Users:
What types of changes were recently applied to users?
How many users were changed?
How many passwords were changed?
Groups:
What groups were recently added?
Have the owners of group been changed?
What licenses are to a group or a user?
Applications:
What applications were, updated, or removed?
Has a service principal for an application changed?
Have the names of applications been changed?
Custom security attributes:
What changes were made tocustom security attributedefinitions or assignments?
What updates were made to attribute sets?
What custom attribute values were assigned to a user?
Note
Entries in the audit logs are system generated and can't be changed or deleted.
What do the logs show?
Audit logs display several valuable details on the activities in your tenant. For a full list of the available audit activities, seeAudit activity reference. The Microsoft Entra admin center defaults to theDirectorytab, which displays the following information:
Date and time of the occurrence
Service that logged the occurrence
Category and name of the activity (what)
Status of the activity (success or failure)
A second tab forCustom Securitydisplays audit logs for custom security attributes. To view data on this tab, you must have theAttribute Log AdministratororAttribute Log Readerrole. This audit log shows all activities related to custom security attributes. For more information, seeWhat are custom security attributes.

Microsoft 365 activity logs
You can view Microsoft 365 activity logs from theMicrosoft 365 admin center. Even though Microsoft 365 activity and Microsoft Entra activity logs share many directory resources, only the Microsoft 365 admin center provides a full view of the Microsoft 365 activity logs.
You can also access the Microsoft 365 activity logs programmatically by using theOffice 365 Management APIs.
Most standalone or bundled Microsoft 365 subscriptions have back-end dependencies on some subsystems within the Microsoft 365 datacenter boundary. The dependencies require some information write-back to keep directories in sync and essentially to help enable hassle-free onboarding in a subscription opt-in for Exchange Online. For these write-backs, audit log entries show actions taken by "Microsoft Substrate Management." These audit log entries refer to create/update/delete operations executed by Exchange Online to Microsoft Entra ID. The entries are informational and don't require any action.
Related content
Audit activity reference
Access activity logs
Customize and filter activity logs
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources