Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data encryption overview
Article
2025-02-20
13 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server
All the data managed by an Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server flexible is always encrypted at rest. That data includes all system and user databases, temporary files, server logs, write-ahead log segments, and backups.
To achieve the encryption of your data, Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server usesAzure Storage encryption for data at rest, providing keys for encrypting and decrypting data in Blob Storage and Azure Files services. These keys must be stored in Azure Key Vault or Azure Key Vault Managed Hardware Security Module (HSM). For more information, seecustomer-managed keys for Azure Storage encryption.
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server supports configuring data encryption in two different modes: service managed key, and customer managed key. The configuration mode can only be selected at server creation time. It can't be changed from one mode to another for the lifetime of the server.
Withservice managed encryption keyAzure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server takes care of provisioning the Azure Key Vault in which the keys are kept, and it assumes all the responsibility of providing the key with which data is encrypted and decrypted. The service also takes care of storing, protecting, auditing access, configuring networking, and automatically rotating the key.
Withcustomer managed encryption keyyou assume all the responsibility. Hence, you must deploy your own Azure Key Vault or Azure Key Vault HSM. You must generate or import your own key. You must grant required permissions on the Key Vault, so that your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server can perform the necessary actions on the key. You have to take care of configuring all networking aspects of the Azure Key Vault in which the key is kept, so that your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server can access the key. Auditing access to the key is also your responsibility. Finally, you're responsible for rotating the key and, when required, updating the configuration of your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server so that it references the rotated version of the key.
When you configure customer-managed keys for a storage account, Azure Storage wraps the root data encryption key (DEK) for the account with the customer-managed key in the associated key vault or managed HSM. The protection of the root encryption key changes, but the data in your Azure Storage account remains encrypted always. There's no extra action required on your part to ensure that your data remains encrypted. Protection by customer-managed keys takes effect immediately.
Azure Key Vault is a cloud-based, external key management system. It's highly available and provides scalable, secure storage for RSA cryptographic keys, optionally backed byFIPS 140 validatedhardware security modules (HSMs). It doesn't allow direct access to a stored key, but provides encryption and decryption services to authorized entities. Key Vault can generate the key, import it, or receive it transferred from an on-premises HSM device.
Benefits provided by each mode
Data encryption withservice managed keysfor Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server provides the following benefits:
The service automatically and fully controls data access.
The service automatically and fully controls your key's life cycle, including rotation of the key.
You don't need to worry about managing data encryption keys.
Data encryption based on service managed keys doesn't negatively affect the performance of your workloads.
It simplifies the management of encryption keys (including their regular rotation), and the management of the identities used to access those keys.
Data encryption withcustomer managed keysfor Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server provides the following benefits:
You fully control data access. You can remove a key to make a database inaccessible.
You fully control a key's life cycle, including rotation of the key, to align with corporate policies.
You can centrally manage and organize all your encryption keys in your own instances of Azure Key Vault.
Data encryption based on customer managed keys doesn't negatively affect the performance of your workloads.
You can implement separation of duties between security officers, database administrators, and system administrators.
Requirements
Following is the list of requirements to configure data encryption for Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server:
Key Vault and Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server must belong to the same Microsoft Entra tenant. Cross-tenant Key Vault and server interactions aren't supported. Moving the Key Vault resource afterward requires you to reconfigure the data encryption.
We recommended you to set theDays to retain deleted vaultsconfiguration for Key Vault to 90 days. If you configured an existing Key Vault instance with a lower number, it should still be valid. However, if you wish to modify this setting and increase the value, it's necessary to create a new Key Vault instance. Once an instance is created, it isn't possible to modify this setting.
Enable the soft-delete feature in Key Vault to help you with protecting from data loss, if a key or a Key Vault instance is accidentally deleted. Key Vault retains soft-deleted resources for 90 days unless the user recovers or purges them in the meantime. The recover and purge actions have their own permissions associated with a Key Vault an RBAC role or an access policy permission. The soft-delete feature is on by default. If you have some Key Vault which was deployed long time ago, it might still have soft-delete disabled. In that case, you can turn it on using Azure CLI.
Enable purge protection to enforce a mandatory retention period for deleted vaults and vault objects.
Grant the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server's user assigned managed identity access to the key by:Preferred: Azure Key Vault should be configured withRBAC permission modeland the managed identity should be assigned theKey Vault Crypto Service Encryption Userrole.Legacy: If Azure Key Vault is configured withAccess policy permission model, grant the following permissions to the managed identity:get: To retrieve the properties and the public part of the key in Key Vault.list: To list and iterate through the keys stored in Key Vault.wrapKey: To encrypt the data encryption key.unwrapKey: To decrypt the data encryption key.
Preferred: Azure Key Vault should be configured withRBAC permission modeland the managed identity should be assigned theKey Vault Crypto Service Encryption Userrole.
Legacy: If Azure Key Vault is configured withAccess policy permission model, grant the following permissions to the managed identity:get: To retrieve the properties and the public part of the key in Key Vault.list: To list and iterate through the keys stored in Key Vault.wrapKey: To encrypt the data encryption key.unwrapKey: To decrypt the data encryption key.
get: To retrieve the properties and the public part of the key in Key Vault.
list: To list and iterate through the keys stored in Key Vault.
wrapKey: To encrypt the data encryption key.
unwrapKey: To decrypt the data encryption key.
The key used for encrypting the data encryption key can be only asymmetric, RSA, or RSA-HSM. Key sizes of 2,048, 3,072, and 4,096 are supported. We recommend using a 4,096-bit key for better security.
The date and time for key activation (if set) must be in the past. The date and time for expiration (if set) must be in the future.
The key must be inEnabledstate.
If you're importing an existing key into Key Vault, provide it in the supported file formats (.pfx,.byok, or.backup).
.pfx
.byok
.backup
Recommendations
When you're using a customer managed key for data encryption, follow these recommendations to configure Key Vault:
To prevent accidental or unauthorized deletion of this critical resource, set a resource lock on Key Vault.
Enable auditing and reporting on all encryption keys. Key Vault provides logs that are easy to inject into other security information and event management (SIEM) tools. Azure Monitor Logs is one example of a service that's already integrated.
Lock down Key Vault by selectingDisable public accessandAllow trusted Microsoft services to bypass this firewall.
Note
After you selectDisable public accessandAllow trusted Microsoft services to bypass this firewall, you might get an error similar to the following when you try to use public access to administer Key Vault via the portal: "You have enabled the network access control. Only allowed networks have access to this key vault." This error doesn't preclude the ability to provide keys during customer managed key setup or fetch keys from Key Vault during server operations.
Keep a copy of the customer manged key in a secure place, or escrow it to the escrow service.
If Key Vault generates the key, create a key backup before you use the key for the first time. You can only restore the backup to Key Vault.
Special considerations
Accidental key access revocation from Key Vault
Someone with sufficient access rights to Key Vault, might accidentally disable server access to the key by:
Unassigning the RBAC roleKey Vault Crypto Service Encryption Useror revoking the permissions from the identity that's used to retrieve the key in Key Vault.
Deleting the key.
Deleting the Key Vault instance.
Changing the Key Vault firewall rules.
Deleting the managed identity of the server in Microsoft Entra ID.
Monitoring the keys kept in Azure Key Vault
To monitor the database state, and to turn on alerts for the loss of access to the data encryption protector, configure the following Azure features:
Resource health: A database that lost access to the CMK appears asInaccessibleafter the first connection to the database is denied.
Activity log: When access to the CMK in the customer-managed Key Vault instance fails, entries are added to the activity log. You can reinstate access if you create alerts for these events as soon as possible.
Action groups: Define these groups to receive notifications and alerts based on your preferences.
Restoring backups of a server configured with a customer managed key
After Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server is encrypted with a customer managed key stored in Key Vault, any newly created server copy is also encrypted. You can make this new copy through apoint-in-time restore (PITR)operation or read replicas.
When you're setting up data encryption with customer managed key, during operation like restore of a backup or creation of a read replica, you can avoid problems by following these steps on the primary and restored or replica servers:
Initiate the restore process or the process of creating a read replica from the primary Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance.
On the restored or replica server, you can change the customer managed key and the user assigned managed identity that's used to access Key Vault. Ensure that the identity assigned in the newly created server has the required permissions on the Key Vault.
Don't revoke the original key after restoring. At this time, we don't support key revocation after you restore a server with customer managed key to another server.
Managed HSMs
Hardware security modules (HSMs) are tamper-resistant hardware devices that help secure cryptographic processes by generating, protecting, and managing keys used for encrypting data, decrypting data, creating digital signatures, and creating digital certificates. HSMs are tested, validated, and certified to the highest security standards, including FIPS 140 and Common Criteria.
Azure Key Vault Managed HSM is a fully managed, highly available, single-tenant, standards-compliant cloud service. You can use it to safeguard cryptographic keys for your cloud applications throughFIPS 140-3 validated HSMs.
When you're creating new Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instances in the Azure portal with the customer managed key, you can chooseAzure Key Vault Managed HSMas a key store, as an alternative toAzure Key Vault. The prerequisites, in terms of user-defined identity and permissions, are the same as with Azure Key Vault (as listedearlier in this article). For more information on how to create a Managed HSM instance, its advantages and differences from a shared Key Vault-based certificate store, and how to import keys into Managed HSM, seeWhat is Azure Key Vault Managed HSM?.
Inaccessible customer managed key condition
When you configure data encryption with a customer managed key stored in Key Vault, continuous access to this key is required for the server to stay online. If that's not the case, the server changes its state toInaccessibleand begins denying all connections.
Some of the possible reasons why the server state might becomeInaccessibleare:
az postgres flexible-server update
Note
When a key is disabled, deleted, expired, or not reachable, a server that has data encrypted with that key becomesInaccessible, as stated earlier. The server state doesn't change toReadyagain until it can revalidate the encryption keys.
Generally, a server becomesInaccessiblewithin 60 minutes after a key is disabled, deleted, expired, or not reachable. After the key becomes available, the server might take up to 60 minutes to becomeReadyagain.
Recovering from managed identity deletion
If the user assigned managed identity used to access the encryption key stored in Key Vault is deleted in Microsoft Entra ID, you should follow these steps to recover:
Eitherrecover the identityor create a new managed Entra ID identity.
If you created a new identity, even if it has the exact same name it had before it was deleted, update the Azure Database for flexible server properties so that it knows it has to use this new identity to access the encryption key.
Make sure this identity has proper permissions for operations on key in Azure Key Vault (AKV).
Wait for around one hour until the server revalidates the key.
Important
Simply creating new Entra ID identity with the same name as deleted identity doesn't recover from managed identity deletion.
Using data encryption with customer managed keys and geo-redundant business continuity features
Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server supports advanceddata recoveryfeatures, such asreplicasandgeo-redundant backup. Following are requirements for setting up data encryption with CMKs and these features, in addition tobasic requirements for data encryption with CMKs:
The geo-redundant backup encryption key needs to be created in a Key Vault instance that must exist in the region where the geo-redundant backup is stored.
TheAzure Resource Manager REST APIversion for supporting geo-redundant backup-enabled CMK servers is 2022-11-01-preview. If you want to useAzure Resource Manager templatesto automate the creation of servers that use both encryption with CMKs and geo-redundant backup features, use this API version.
You can't use the sameuser-managed identityto authenticate for the primary database's Key Vault instance and the Key Vault instance that holds the encryption key for geo-redundant backup. To maintain regional resiliency, we recommend that you create the user-managed identity in the same region as the geo-redundant backups.
If you set up aread replica databaseto be encrypted with CMKs during creation, its encryption key needs to be in a Key Vault instance in the region where the read replica database resides. Theuser-assigned identityto authenticate against this Key Vault instance needs to be created in the same region.
Versionless customer managed keys (preview)
Version-less keys simplify key rotation. Usingauto-rotation in Key Vaultwithout version-less keys requires custom automation to detect the rotation and update the CMK in PostgreSQL with the new key version.
The version-less keys feature covers auto and manual key rotation in Key Vault: After a new key version is available, the server will automatically use the new version of the key version for encrypting and decrypting data.
The API doesn't change for version-less keys. Instead of providing the entire key identifier URI, omit the version portion of the key identifier. This applies to the API, Azure CLI, ARM, and Bicep.
Azure portal has a checkbox to enable version-less. This flag changes the key URI entry to not require a version.
Limitations
These are the current limitations for configuring the customer managed key in an  Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server:
You can configure customer managed key encryption only during creation of a new server, not as an update to an existing Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance. You canrestore a PITR backup to a new server with CMK encryptioninstead.
After you configure customer managed key encryption, you can't revert back to system managed key. If you want to revert, you mustrestore the server to a new one with data encryption configured with system managed key.
The instance of Azure Key Vault Managed HSM or the instance of Azure Key Vault on which you plan to store the encryption key, must exist in the same region on which the instance of Azure Database for flexible server is being created.
Related content
Configure data encryption.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources