Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Available SKUs for HANA Large Instances
Article
2023-02-10
3 contributors
In this article
BareMetal Infrastructure availability by region
BareMetal Infrastructure (certified for SAP HANA workloads) service based on Rev 4.2* is available in the following regions:
West Europe
North Europe
Germany West Central with Zones support
East US with Zones support
East US 2
South Central US
West US 2 with Zones support
BareMetal Infrastructure (certified for SAP HANA workloads) service based on Rev 3* has limited availability in the following regions:
West US
East US
Australia East
Australia Southeast
Japan East
List of available Azure Large Instances
The following is a list of available Azure Large Instances (also known as BareMetal Infrastructure instances).
Important
Be aware of the first column that represents the status of HANA certification for each of the Large Instance types in the list. The column should correlate with theSAP HANA hardware directoryfor the Azure SKUs that start with the letterS.
CPU cores = sum of non-hyper-threaded CPU cores of the sum of the processors of the server unit.
CPU threads = sum of compute threads provided by hyper-threaded CPU cores of the sum of the processors of the server unit. Most units are configured by default to use Hyper-Threading Technology.
Based on supplier recommendations, S768m, S768xm, and S960m aren't configured to use Hyper-Threading for running SAP HANA.
Important
The following SKUs, though still supported, can't be purchased anymore: S72, S72m, S144, S144m, S192, and S192m.
Specific configurations chosen are dependent on workload, CPU resources, and desired memory. It's possible for the OLTP workload to use the SKUs that are optimized for the OLAP workload.
Two different classes of hardware divide the SKUs into:
S72, S72m, S96, S144, S144m, S192, S192m, S192xm, S224, and S224m, S224oo, S224om, S224ooo, S224oom are referred to as the "Type I class" of SKUs.
All other SKUs are referred to as the "Type II class" of SKUs.
If you're interested in SKUs that aren't yet listed in the SAP hardware directory, contact your Microsoft account team to get more information.
Tenant considerations
A complete HANA Large Instance stamp isn't exclusively allocated for a single customer's use. This applies to the racks of compute and storage resources connected through a network fabric deployed in Azure as well. HANA Large Instance infrastructure, like Azure, deploys different customer "tenants" that are isolated from one another in the following three levels:
Network: Isolation through virtual networks within the HANA Large Instance stamp.
Storage: Isolation through storage virtual machines that have storage volumes assigned and isolate storage volumes between tenants.
Compute: Dedicated assignment of server units to a single tenant. No hard or soft partitioning of server units. No sharing of a single server or host unit between tenants.
The deployments of HANA Large Instance units between different tenants aren't visible to each other. HANA Large Instance units deployed in different tenants can't communicate directly with each other on the HANA Large Instance stamp level. Only HANA Large Instance units within one tenant can communicate with each other on the HANA Large Instance stamp level.
A deployed tenant in the Large Instance stamp is assigned to one Azure subscription for billing purposes. For a network, it can be accessed from virtual networks of other Azure subscriptions within the same Azure enrollment. If you deploy with another Azure subscription in the same Azure region, you also can choose to ask for a separated HANA Large Instance tenant.
SAP HANA on HANA Large Instances vs. on VMs
There are significant differences between running SAP HANA on HANA Large Instances and SAP HANA running on VMs deployed in Azure:
There is no virtualization layer for SAP HANA on Azure (Large Instances). You get the performance of the underlying bare-metal hardware.
Unlike Azure, the SAP HANA on Azure (Large Instances) server is dedicated to a specific customer. There is no possibility that a server unit or host is hard or soft partitioned. As a result, a HANA Large Instance unit is used as assigned as a whole to a tenant and with that to you. A reboot or shutdown of the server doesn't lead automatically to the operating system and SAP HANA being deployed on another server. (For Type I class SKUs, the only exception is if a server encounters issues and redeployment needs to be performed on another server.)
Unlike Azure, where host processor types are selected for the best price/performance ratio, the processor types chosen for SAP HANA on Azure (Large Instances) are the highest performing of the Intel E7v3 and E7v4 processor line.
Next steps
Learn about sizing for HANA Large Instances.
HLI Sizing
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources