Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Best practices for container image management and security in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Article
2024-08-01
11 contributors
In this article
Container and container image security is a major priority when developing and running applications in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). Containers with outdated base images or unpatched application runtimes introduce security risks and possible attack vectors. You can minimize these risks by integrating and running scan and remediation tools in your containers at build and runtime. The earlier you catch the vulnerability or outdated base image, the more secure your application is.
In this article,"containers"refers to both the container images stored in a container registry and running containers.
This article focuses on how to secure your containers in AKS. You learn how to:
Scan for and remediate image vulnerabilities.
Automatically trigger and redeploy container images when a base image is updated.
You can read the best practices forcluster securityandpod security.
You can useContainer security in Defender for Cloudto help scan your containers for vulnerabilities.Azure Container Registry integrationwith Defender for Cloud helps protect your images and registry from vulnerabilities.
Secure the images and runtime
Best practice guidance
Scan your container images for vulnerabilities.
Only deploy validated images.
Regularly update the base images and application runtime.
Redeploy workloads in the AKS cluster.
When adopting container-based workloads, you want to verify the security of images and runtime used to build your own applications. To help avoid introducing security vulnerabilities into your deployments, you can use the following best practices:
Include in your deployment workflow a process to scan container images using tools, such asTwistlockorAqua.
Only allow verified images to be deployed.

For example, you can use a continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipeline to automate the image scans, verification, and deployments. Azure Container Registry includes these vulnerabilities scanning capabilities.
Automatically build new images on base image update
Best practice guidance
As you use base images for application images, use automation to build new images when the base image is updated. Since updated base images typically include security fixes, update any downstream application container images.
Each time a base image is updated, you should also update any downstream container images. Integrate this build process into validation and deployment pipelines such asAzure Pipelinesor Jenkins. These pipelines ensure your applications continue to run on the updated based images. Once your application container images are validated, you can then update AKS deployments to run the latest secure images.
Azure Container Registry Tasks can also automatically update container images when the base image is updated. With this feature, you build a few base images and keep them updated with bug and security fixes.
For more information about base image updates, seeAutomate image builds on base image update with Azure Container Registry Tasks.
Next steps
This article focused on how to secure your containers. To implement some of these areas, see the following article:
Automate image builds on base image update with Azure Container Registry Tasks
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources