Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Secure your organization's identities with Microsoft Entra ID
Article
2024-05-31
15 contributors
In this article
It can seem daunting trying to secure your workers in today's world, especially when you have to respond rapidly and provide access to many services quickly. This article helps provide a concise list of actions to take, helping you identify and prioritize features based on the license type you own.
Microsoft Entra ID offers many features and provides many layers of security for your Identities, navigating which feature is relevant can sometimes be overwhelming. This document is intended to help organizations deploy services quickly, with secure identities as the primary consideration.
Each table provides security recommendations to protect identities from common security attacks while minimizing user friction.
The guidance helps:
Configure access to software as a service (SaaS) and on-premises applications in a secure and protected manner
Both cloud and hybrid identities
Users working remotely or in the office
Prerequisites
This guide assumes that your cloud-only or hybrid identities are established in Microsoft Entra ID already. For help with choosing your identity type see the article,Choose the right authentication (AuthN) method for your Microsoft Entra hybrid identity solution.
Microsoft recommends that organizations have two cloud-only emergency access accounts permanently assigned theGlobal Administratorrole. These accounts are highly privileged and aren't assigned to specific individuals. The accounts are limited to emergency or "break glass" scenarios where normal accounts can't be used or all other administrators are accidentally locked out. These accounts should be created following theemergency access account recommendations.
Guided walkthrough
For a guided walkthrough of many of the recommendations in this article, see theSet up Microsoft Entra IDguide when signed in to the Microsoft 365 Admin Center. To review best practices without signing in and activating automated setup features, go to theMicrosoft 365 Setup portal.

Guidance for Microsoft Entra ID Free, Office 365, or Microsoft 365 customers
There are many recommendations that Microsoft Entra ID Free, Office 365, or Microsoft 365 app customers should take to protect their user identities. The following table is intended to highlight key actions for the following license subscriptions:
Office 365 (Office 365 E1, E3, E5, F1, A1, A3, A5)
Microsoft 365 (Business Basic, Apps for Business, Business Standard, Business Premium, A1)
Microsoft Entra ID Free (included with Azure, Dynamics 365, Intune, and Power Platform)

Guidance for Microsoft Entra ID P1 customers
The following table is intended to highlight the key actions for the following license subscriptions:
Microsoft Entra ID P1
Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security E3
Microsoft 365 (E3, A3, F1, F3)

Guidance for Microsoft Entra ID P2 customers
The following table is intended to highlight the key actions for the following license subscriptions:
Microsoft Entra ID P2
Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security E5
Microsoft 365 (E5, A5)
Zero Trust
This feature helps organizations to align theiridentitieswith the three guiding principles of a Zero Trust architecture:
Verify explicitly
Use least privilege
Assume breach
To find out more about Zero Trust and other ways to align your organization to the guiding principles, see theZero Trust Guidance Center.
Next steps
For detailed deployment guidance for individual features of Microsoft Entra ID, review theMicrosoft Entra ID project deployment plans.
Organizations can useidentity secure scoreto track their progress against other Microsoft recommendations.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources