Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data landing zones
Article
2025-02-17
7 contributors
In this article
Data landing zones are connected to yourdata management landing zoneby virtual network peering or private endpoints. Each data landing zone is considered alanding zonerelated to Azure landing zone architecture.
Important
Before you provision a data landing zone, ensure that your DevOps and continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) operating model is in place and that a data management landing zone is deployed.
Each data landing zone has several layers that enable agility for the service data integrations and data applications it contains. You can deploy a new data landing zone with a standard set of services that allow the data landing zone to ingest and analyze data.
The following table shows the structure of a typical Azure subscription associated with a data landing zone.
Network
Security
Storage
Shared integration runtimes (IRs)
Management
External storage
Data ingestion
Shared applications
Data application(one or more)
Reporting and visualization
Note
The core services layer is marked as required, but not all resource groups and services included in this article might be necessary for your data landing zone.
Data landing zone architecture
The following data landing zone architecture illustrates the layers, their resource groups, and the services that each resource group contains. The architecture provides an overview of all groups and roles associated with your data landing zone and the extent of their access to your control and data planes. The architecture also illustrates how each layer aligns with the operating model responsibilities.

Tip
Before you deploy a data landing zone, make sure toconsider the number of initial data landing zones that you want to deploy.
Platform services
The platform services layer includes services required to enable connectivity and observability to your data landing zone within the context of cloud-scale analytics. The following table lists the recommended resource groups.
network-rg
security-rg
Networking
The network resource group contains connectivity services, includingAzure Virtual Network,network security groups, androute tables. All these services are deployed into a single resource group.
The virtual network of your data landing zone isautomatically peered with your data management landing zone's virtual networkand yourconnectivity subscription's virtual network.
Security and monitoring
The security and monitoring resource group includesAzure MonitorandMicrosoft Defender for Cloudto collect service telemetry, define monitoring criteria and alerts, and apply policies and scanning to services.
Core services
The core services layer includes foundational services required to enable your data landing zone within the context of cloud-scale analytics. The following table lists the resource groups that provide the standard suite of available services in every data landing zone that you deploy.
storage-rg
runtimes-rg
mgmt-rg
external-data-rg
data-ingestion-rg
shared-applications-rg
Storage
The previous diagram shows threeAzure Data Lake Storage Gen2accounts provisioned in a single data lake services resource group. Data transformed at different stages is saved in one of your data landing zone's data lakes. The data is available for consumption by your analytics, data science, and visualization teams.
Data lake layers use different terminology depending on technology and vendor. This table provides guidance on how to apply terms for cloud-scale analytics:
Note
In the previous diagram, each data landing zone has three data lake storage accounts. Depending on your requirements, you can choose to consolidate your raw, enriched, and curated layers into one storage account and maintain another storage account calledworkspacefor data consumers to bring in other useful data products.
For more information, see:
Overview of Azure Data Lake Storage for cloud-scale analytics
Data standardization
Data lake zones and containers
Key considerations for Data Lake Storage
Access control and data lake configurations in Data Lake Storage
Shared IRs
Azure Data Factory and Azure Synapse Analytics pipelines use IRs to securely access data sources in peered or isolated networks. Shared IRs should be deployed to a virtual machine (VM) or Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets in the shared IR resource group.
To enable the shared resource group:
Create at least one Azure Data Factory instance in your data landing zone's shared integration resource group. Use it only for linking the shared self-hosted IR, not for data pipelines.
Create at least one Azure Data Factory instance in your data landing zone's shared integration resource group. Use it only for linking the shared self-hosted IR, not for data pipelines.
Create and configure a self-hosted IRon the VM.
Create and configure a self-hosted IRon the VM.
Associate the self-hosted IR with Azure data factories in your data landing zones.
Associate the self-hosted IR with Azure data factories in your data landing zones.
Use PowerShell scripts toperiodically update the self-hosted IR.
Use PowerShell scripts toperiodically update the self-hosted IR.
Note
The deployment describes a single VM deployment that has a self-hosted IR. You can associate a self-hosted IR with multiple VMs on-premises or in Azure. These machines are called nodes. You can have up to four nodes associated with a self-hosted IR. The benefits of having multiple nodes include:
Higher availability of the self-hosted IR so that it's no longer the single point of failure in your data application or in the orchestration of cloud data integration.
Higher availability of the self-hosted IR so that it's no longer the single point of failure in your data application or in the orchestration of cloud data integration.
Improved performance and throughput during data movement between on-premises and cloud data services. For more information, seeCopy activity performance and scalability guide.
Improved performance and throughput during data movement between on-premises and cloud data services. For more information, seeCopy activity performance and scalability guide.
You can associate multiple nodes by installing the self-hosted IR software fromMicrosoft Download Center. Then register it by using either of the authentication keys obtained from theNew-AzDataFactoryV2IntegrationRuntimeKeycmdlet, as described in thetutorial.
For more information, seeAzure Data Factory high availability and scalability.
Make sure to deploy shared IRs as close to the data source as possible. You can deploy the IRs in a data landing zone, into non-Microsoft clouds, or into a private cloud if the VM has connectivity to the required data sources.
Management
CI/CD agents run on VMs and help deploy artifacts from the source code repository, including data applications and changes to the data landing zone.
For more information, seeAzure Pipelines agents.
External storage
Partner data publishers need to land data in your platform so that your data application teams can pull it into their data lakes. You can also have internal or external data sources that can't support the connectivity or authentication requirements enforced across the rest of the data landing zones. The recommended approach is to use a separate storage account to receive data. Then use a shared IR or similar ingestion process to bring it into your processing pipeline.
The data application teams request the storage blobs. These requests get approved by the data landing zone operations team. Data should be deleted from its source storage blob after it's ingested into the raw data storage.
Important
Because Azure Storage blobs are provisioned on anas-neededbasis, you should initially deploy an empty storage services resource group in each data landing zone.
Data ingestion
This resource group is optional and doesn't prevent you from deploying your landing zone. It applies if you have, or are developing, a data-agnostic ingestion engine that automatically ingests data based on registered metadata. This feature includes connection strings, paths for data transfer, and ingestion schedules.
The ingestion and processing resource group has key services for this kind of framework.
Deploy an Azure SQL Database instance to hold metadata that Azure Data Factory uses. Provision an Azure key vault to store secrets related to automated ingestion services. These secrets can include:
Azure Data Factory metastore credentials.
Service principal credentials for your automated ingestion process.
For more information, seeData agnostic ingestion engine.
The following table describes services in this resource group.
Shared applications
Use this optional resource group when you need to have a set of shared services made available to all the teams building data applications in this data landing zone. Use cases include:
An Azure Databricks workspace used as a shared metastore for all other Databricks workspaces created in the same data landing zone or region.
An Azure Databricks workspace used as a shared metastore for all other Databricks workspaces created in the same data landing zone or region.
A shared Azure Synapse Analytics instance that uses serverless SQL pools to enable users to query across isolated storage accounts.
A shared Azure Synapse Analytics instance that uses serverless SQL pools to enable users to query across isolated storage accounts.
Note
Azure Databricks uses Unity Catalog to govern access and visibility to metastores across Databricks workspaces. Unity Catalog is enabled at a tenant level, but metastores are aligned with Azure regions. This setup means that all Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspaces in a given Azure region must register with the same metastore. For more information, seeUnity Catalog best practices.
To integrate Azure Databricks, follow cloud-scale analytics best practices. For more information, seeSecure access to Azure Data Lake Gen2 from Azure DatabricksandAzure Databricks best practices.
Data application
Each data landing zone can have multiple data applications. You can create these applications by ingesting data from various sources. You can also create data applications from other data applications within the same data landing zone or from other data landing zones. The creation of data applications is subject to data steward approval.
Data application resource group
Your data application resource group includes all the services required to make the data application. For example, an Azure Database is required for MySQL, which is used by a visualization tool. Data must be ingested and transformed before it goes into that MySQL database. In this case, you can deploy Azure Database for MySQL and Azure Data Factory into the data application resource group.
Tip
If you decide not to implement a data-agnostic engine for single ingestion from operational sources, or if complex connections aren't supported in your data-agnostic engine, develop a source-aligneddata application.
Reporting and visualization
You can use visualization and reporting tools within Fabric workspaces, which are similar to Power BI workspaces. This feature allows you to avoid deploying unique resources within your data landing zone. You can include a resource group to deploy Fabric capacity, VMs for data gateways, or other necessary data services to deliver your data application to the user.
Next step
Cloud-scale analytics data products in Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources