Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Collect Windows event log data sources with Log Analytics agent
Article
2024-11-14
9 contributors
In this article
Windows event logs are one of the most commondata sourcesfor Log Analytics agents on Windows virtual machines because many applications write to the Windows event log. You can collect events from standard logs, such as System and Application, and any custom logs created by applications you need to monitor.

Important
The legacyLog Analytics agentis deprecated as of August 31, 2024. Microsoft will no longer provide any support for the Log Analytics agent. If you use the Log Analytics agent to ingest data to Azure Monitor,migrate now to Azure Monitor agent.
Configure Windows event logs
Configure Windows event logs from theLegacy agents management menufor the Log Analytics workspace.
Azure Monitor only collects events from Windows event logs that are specified in the settings. You can add an event log by entering the name of the log and selecting+. For each log, only the events with the selected severities are collected. Check the severities for the particular log that you want to collect. You can't provide any other criteria to filter events.
As you enter the name of an event log, Azure Monitor provides suggestions of common event log names. If the log you want to add doesn't appear in the list, you can still add it by entering the full name of the log. You can find the full name of the log by using event viewer. In event viewer, open thePropertiespage for the log and copy the string from theFull Namefield.

Important
You can't configure collection of security events from the workspace by using the Log Analytics agent. You must useMicrosoft Defender for CloudorMicrosoft Sentinelto collect security events. TheAzure Monitor agentcan also be used to collect security events.
Critical events from the Windows event log will have a severity of "Error" in Azure Monitor Logs.
Data collection
Azure Monitor collects each event that matches a selected severity from a monitored event log as the event is created. The agent records its place in each event log that it collects from. If the agent goes offline for a while, it collects events from where it last left off, even if those events were created while the agent was offline. There's a potential for these events to not be collected if the event log wraps with uncollected events being overwritten while the agent is offline.
Note
Azure Monitor doesn't collect audit events created by SQL Server from sourceMSSQLSERVERwith event ID 18453 that contains keywordsClassicorAudit Successand keyword0xa0000000000000.
Windows event records properties
Windows event records have a type of event and have the properties in the following table:
AOI-<workspace ID>
Log queries with Windows events
The following table provides different examples of log queries that retrieve Windows event records.
Next steps
Configure Log Analytics to collect otherdata sourcesfor analysis.
Learn aboutlog queriesto analyze the data collected from data sources and solutions.
Configurecollection of performance countersfrom your Windows agents.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources