Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure security baseline for Azure Data Explorer
Article
2025-02-25
1 contributor
In this article
This security baseline applies guidance from theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark version 1.0to Azure Data Explorer. The Microsoft cloud security benchmark provides recommendations on how you can secure your cloud solutions on Azure. The content is grouped by the security controls defined by the Microsoft cloud security benchmark and the related guidance applicable to Azure Data Explorer.
You can monitor this security baseline and its recommendations using Microsoft Defender for Cloud. Azure Policy definitions will be listed in the Regulatory Compliance section of the Microsoft Defender for Cloud portal page.
When a feature has relevant Azure Policy Definitions, they are listed in this baseline to help you measure compliance with the Microsoft cloud security benchmark controls and recommendations. Some recommendations may require a paid Microsoft Defender plan to enable certain security scenarios.
Note
Featuresnot applicable to Azure Data Explorer have been excluded. To see how Azure Data Explorer completely maps to the Microsoft cloud security benchmark, see thefull Azure Data Explorer security baseline mapping file.
Security profile
The security profile summarizes high-impact behaviors of Azure Data Explorer, which may result in increased security considerations.
Network security
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Network security.
NS-1: Establish network segmentation boundaries
Description: Service supports deployment into customer's private Virtual Network (VNet).Learn more.
Feature notes: We highly recommended using private endpoints to secure network access to your cluster. This option has many advantages over virtual network injection that results in lower maintenance overhead, including a simpler deployment process and being more robust to virtual network changes.
Configuration Guidance: Deploy Azure Data Explorer cluster into a subnet in your Virtual Network (VNet). This will allow you to implement NSG rules to restrict on your Azure Data Explorer cluster traffic and connect your on-premises network to Azure Data Explorer cluster's subnet.
Reference:Deploy Azure Data Explorer cluster into your Virtual Network
Description: Service network traffic respects Network Security Groups rule assignment on its subnets.Learn more.
Feature notes: It is supported and required to configure Network Security Group rules in case Azure Data Explorer was injected into the customer virtual network. It is not recommended to inject Azure Data Explorer into a virtual network. It is recommended to follow a Private Endpoint based network security implementation:Private endpoints for Azure Data Explorer.
Configuration Guidance: In case you decide to inject Azure Data Explorer into a virtual network (a private endpoint-based solution is highly recommended) we require you to use subnet delegation for your cluster's deployment. To do so, you must delegate the subnet to Microsoft.Kusto/clusters before creating the cluster in the subnet.
By enabling subnet delegation on the cluster's subnet, you enable the service to define its pre-conditions for deployment in the form of Network Intent Policies. When creating the cluster in the subnet, the NSG configurations mentioned in the following sections are automatically created for you.
Reference:Configure Network Security Group rules
NS-2: Secure cloud services with network controls
Description: Service native IP filtering capability for filtering network traffic (not to be confused with NSG or Azure Firewall).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: It is highly recommended to use private endpoints to secure network access to your cluster. This option has many advantages over virtual network integration that results in lower maintenance overhead, including a simpler deployment process and being more robust to virtual network changes.
Reference:Private endpoints for Azure Data Explorer
Description: Service supports disabling public network access either through using service-level IP ACL filtering rule (not NSG or Azure Firewall) or using a 'Disable Public Network Access' toggle switch.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Disable public network access either using the service-level IP ACL filtering rule or a toggling switch for public network access.
Reference:Restrict public access to your Azure Data Explorer cluster
Identity management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Identity management.
IM-1: Use centralized identity and authentication system
Description: Service supports using Azure AD authentication for data plane access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) as the default authentication method to control your data plane access.
Reference:How to authenticate with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) for Azure Data Explorer access
Description: Local authentications methods supported for data plane access, such as a local username and password.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
IM-3: Manage application identities securely and automatically
Description: Data plane actions support authentication using managed identities.Learn more.
Feature notes: Azure Data Explorer allows authentication on its data plane with any Azure Active Directory identity. This means System and User Managed Identities are supported.
Moreover, Azure Data Explorer supports use of Managed Identities to authenticate on other services for Ingestion and Query. For more information, please visit:Managed identities overview.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Azure Active Directory authentication
Description: Data plane supports authentication using service principals.Learn more.
Feature notes: Azure Data Explorer supports all Azure Active Directory identity types, including service principals
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Azure Active Directory authentication using an application
IM-7: Restrict resource access based on conditions
Description: Data plane access can be controlled using Azure AD Conditional Access Policies.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Define the applicable conditions and criteria for Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) conditional access in the workload. Consider common use cases such as blocking or granting access from specific locations, blocking risky sign-in behavior, or requiring organization-managed devices for specific applications.
Reference:Conditional Access with Azure Data Explorer
IM-8: Restrict the exposure of credential and secrets
Description: Data plane supports native use of Azure Key Vault for credential and secrets store.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Privileged access
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Privileged access.
PA-1: Separate and limit highly privileged/administrative users
Description: Service has the concept of a local administrative account.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
PA-7: Follow just enough administration (least privilege) principle
Description: Azure Role-Based Access Control (Azure RBAC) can be used to managed access to service's data plane actions.Learn more.
Feature notes: Azure Data Explorer enables you to control access to the data plane (databases and tables), using a role-based access control model. Under this model, principals (users, groups, and apps) are mapped to roles. Principals can access resources according to the roles they're assigned. However the Azure Data Explorer data plane is decoupled from the Azure RBAC for the control plane.
Refer to:Manage Azure Data Explorer database permissions
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
PA-8: Determine access process for cloud provider support
Description: Customer Lockbox can be used for Microsoft support access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Data protection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Data protection.
DP-1: Discover, classify, and label sensitive data
Description: Tools (such as Azure Purview or Azure Information Protection) can be used for data discovery and classification in the service.Learn more.
Feature notes: Azure Data Explorer is supported in Microsoft Purview.
Configuration Guidance: Azure Data Explorer is supported in Microsoft Purview. You can use Azure Purview to scan, classify, and label any sensitive data that resides in Azure Data Explorer.
DP-2: Monitor anomalies and threats targeting sensitive data
Description: Service supports DLP solution to monitor sensitive data movement (in customer's content).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Restricting outbound access of your cluster is important to mitigate risks like data exfiltration. A malicious actor could potentially create an external table to a storage account and extract large amounts of data. You can control outbound access at the cluster level by defining callout policies. Managing callout policies enables you to allow outbound access to specified SQL, storage, or other endpoints.
Reference:Restrict outbound access from your Azure Data Explorer cluster
DP-3: Encrypt sensitive data in transit
Description: Service supports data in-transit encryption for data plane.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
DP-4: Enable data at rest encryption by default
Description: Data at-rest encryption using platform keys is supported, any customer content at rest is encrypted with these Microsoft managed keys.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Data Encryption in Azure Data Explorer
DP-5: Use customer-managed key option in data at rest encryption when required
Description: Data at-rest encryption using customer-managed keys is supported for customer content stored by the service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: For additional control over encryption keys, you can supply customer-managed keys to use for data encryption. You can manage encryption of your data at the storage level with your own keys. A customer-managed key is used to protect and control access to the root encryption key, which is used to encrypt and decrypt all data. Customer-managed keys offer greater flexibility to create, rotate, disable, and revoke access controls. You can also audit the encryption keys used to protect your data.
Reference:Encryption using configure customer-managed keys
DP-7: Use a secure certificate management process
Description: The service supports Azure Key Vault integration for any customer certificates.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Asset management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Asset management.
AM-2: Use only approved services
Description: Service configurations can be monitored and enforced via Azure Policy.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Microsoft Defender for Cloud to configure Azure Policy to audit and enforce configurations of your Azure resources. Use Azure Monitor to create alerts when there is a configuration deviation detected on the resources. Use Azure Policy [deny] and [deploy if not exists] effects to enforce secure configuration across Azure resources.
Reference:Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance controls for Azure Data Explorer
Logging and threat detection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Logging and threat detection.
LT-1: Enable threat detection capabilities
Description: Service has an offering-specific Microsoft Defender solution to monitor and alert on security issues.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
LT-4: Enable logging for security investigation
Description: Service produces resource logs that can provide enhanced service-specific metrics and logging. The customer can configure these resource logs and send them to their own data sink like a storage account or log analytics workspace.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Azure Data Explorer uses diagnostic logs for insights on ingestion, commands, query, and tables. You can export operation logs to Azure Storage, event hub, or Log Analytics to monitor ingestion, commands, and query status. Logs from Azure Storage and Azure Event Hubs can be routed to a table in your Azure Data Explorer cluster for further analysis.
Reference:Monitor Azure Data Explorer ingestion, commands, queries, and tables using diagnostic logs
Backup and recovery
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Backup and recovery.
BR-1: Ensure regular automated backups
Description: The service can be backed up by the Azure Backup service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Description: Service supports its own native backup capability (if not using Azure Backup).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Next steps
See theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark overview
Learn more aboutAzure security baselines
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources