Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Bsv2 sizes series
Article
2024-10-24
1 contributor
In this article
Bsv2-series virtual machines run on Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8473C (Sapphire Rapids), or Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor in a hyper threaded configuration, providing low-cost CPU burstable general purpose virtual machines. Bsv2-series virtual machines utilize a CPU credit model to track how much CPU is consumed. The virtual machine accumulates CPU credits when a workload is operating below the base CPU performance threshold and, uses credits when running above the base CPU performance threshold until all of its credits are consumed. Upon consuming all the CPU credits, a Bsv2-series virtual machine is throttled back to its base CPU performance until it accumulates the credits to CPU burst again.
Bsv2-series virtual machines offer a balance of compute, memory, and network resources and are a cost-effective way to run a broad spectrum of general-purpose workloads. These include large-scale micro-services, small and medium databases, virtual desktops, and business-critical applications; and are also an affordable option to run your code repositories and dev/test environments. Bsv2-Series offers virtual machines of up to 32 vCPU and 128 Gib of RAM, with max network bandwidth of up to 6,250 Mbps and max uncached disk throughput of 600 Mbps. Bsv2-series virtual machines also support attachments of Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types with a default Remote-SSD support, you can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines.
Read more about theB-series CPU credit model.
Host specifications
Feature support
Premium Storage: SupportedPremium Storage caching: SupportedLive Migration: SupportedMemory Preserving Updates: SupportedGeneration 2 VMs: SupportedGeneration 1 VMs: Not SupportedAccelerated Networking: SupportedEphemeral OS Disk: Not SupportedNested Virtualization: Not Supported
Sizes in series
Basics
CPU Burst
Local Storage
Remote Storage
Network
Accelerators
vCPUs (Qty.) and Memory for each size
Check vCPU quotas
Base CPU performance, Credits, and other CPU bursting related info
1The base CPU performance metric hasn't changed. The updated (2024) numbers were normalized using a0 – 100%scale. Previously, the scale was0 – (vCPU x 100%).
0 – 100%
0 – (vCPU x 100%)
Bsv2-series virtual machines can burst their disk performance and get up to their bursting max for up to 30 minutes at a time.
Learn more aboutCPU bursting
Local (temp) storage info for each size
Note
No local storage present in this series.
For frequently asked questions, seeAzure VM sizes with no local temp disk.
Remote (uncached) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Network interface info for each size
Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Expected network bandwidth is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines.
To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Accelerator (GPUs, FPGAs, etc.) info for each size
Note
No accelerators are present in this series.
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources