Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure SQL Managed Instance?
Article
2024-09-27
33 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL Managed Instance
This article provides an overview of Azure SQL Managed Instance, a fully managed platform as a service (PaaS) database engine that handles most database management functions such as upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring without user involvement.
Note
Try Azure SQL Managed Instance free of chargeand get 720 vCore hours on a General Purpose SQL Managed Instance with up to 100 databases per instance for the first 12 months.
Azure SQL Managed Instance is a scalable cloud database service that's always running on the latest stable version of theMicrosoft SQL Server database engineand a patched OS with99.99% built-in high availability, offering close to 100% feature compatibility with SQL Server. PaaS capabilities built into Azure SQL Managed enable you to focus on domain-specific database administration and optimization activities that are critical for your business while Microsoft handles backups, as well as patching and updating of the SQL and operating system code, which removes the burden on managing the underlying infrastructure.
If you're new to Azure SQL Managed Instance, check out theAzure SQL Managed Instancevideo from our in-depthAzure SQL video series:
Note
Microsoft Entra IDwas previously known as Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
Overview
Azure SQL Managed Instance is a PaaS service that has near 100% compatibility with the latest Enterprise Edition SQL Server database engine, providing a nativevirtual network (VNet)implementation that addresses common security concerns, and abusiness modelfavorable to existing SQL Server customers. SQL Managed Instance allows existing SQL Server customers to lift and shift their on-premises applications to the cloud with minimal application and database changes. At the same time, SQL Managed Instance provides all PaaS capabilities (automatic patching and version updates,automated backups,high availability) to drastically reduce management overhead and the total cost of ownership (TCO).
SQL Managed Instance is designed for customers looking to migrate a large number of apps from an on-premises or IaaS, self-built, or ISV provided environment to a fully managed PaaS cloud environment, with as low a migration effort as possible. Using the fully automatedAzure Data Migration Service, or theManaged Instance link, customers can lift and shift their existing SQL Server database or SQL Server instance to Azure SQL Managed Instance, which offers compatibility with SQL Server and complete isolation of customer instances with native VNet support.
With Software Assurance, you can exchange your existing licenses for discounted rates on SQL Managed Instance using theAzure Hybrid Benefit for SQL Server. SQL Managed Instance is the best migration destination in the cloud for SQL Server instances that require high security and a rich programmability surface.
For more information on migration options and tools, seeMigration overview: SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance.
The following diagram outlines key benefits of SQL Managed Instance:

Important
For a list of regions where SQL Managed Instance is currently available, seeSupported regions.
Key features and capabilities
SQL Managed Instance runs with all of the features of the most recent version of SQL Server, including online operations, automatic plan corrections, and other enterprise performance enhancements. For details about the SQL Server features available in Azure SQL Managed Instance, reviewfeature comparison.
The following table provides key capabilities of Azure SQL Managed Instance:
Important
Azure SQL Managed Instance has been certified against a number of compliance standards. For more information, see theMicrosoft Azure Compliance Offerings, where you can find the most current list of SQL Managed Instance compliance certifications, listed underSQL Database.
The following table shows characteristics of SQL Managed Instance:
1Based on theAlways-up-to-dateupdate policy. Instances configured with theSQL Server 2022update policy have updates from the latest stable SQL Server 2022 database engine.
Supported SQL features
Azure SQL Managed Instance aims to deliver close to 100% surface area compatibility with the latest SQL Server version through a staged release plan, which means that most features of SQL Server are also compatible with SQL Managed Instance.
SQL Managed Instance supports backward compatibility to SQL Server 2008 databases. Direct migration from SQL Server 2005 is supported, and the compatibility level for migrated SQL Server 2005 databases is updated to SQL Server 2008.
The following briefly lists SQL Server features that are compatible with Azure SQL Managed Instance:
Data migration
Native backup and restore
Configurable database file layout
Migrations at scale withDMS
Migrate with Managed Instance link
Operational
DMVsandExtended events
Query store
SQL Server Agent
Database mail (external SMTP)
Scenario enablers
Synchronize data with the Managed Instance link
Service Broker
Transactional replication
Change Data Capture
Programmability
Global temporal tables
Cross-database queries and transactions
Linked servers
CLR modules
Security
Microsoft Entra authentication
TDE
Always Encrypted
SQL Auditing
Row-Level Security (RLS)
Dynamic Data Masking
For a comprehensive list of SQL Server and Azure SQL Managed Instance features, reviewfeatures comparison.For a list of T-SQL differences between SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server, reviewSQL Managed Instance T-SQL differences from SQL Server.
Note
Some SQL Managed Instance feature availability depends on the configuredupdate policy.
Key differences between SQL Server on-premises and SQL Managed Instance
SQL Managed Instance benefits from being always-up-to-date in the cloud, which means that some features in SQL Server might be obsolete, retired, or have alternatives. There are specific cases when tools need to recognize that a particular feature works in a slightly different way or that the service is running in an environment you don't fully control.
Some key differences:
High availability is built in and preconfigured using technology similar toAlways On availability groups.
There are only automated backups and point-in-time restore. Customers can initiatecopy-onlybackups that don't interfere with the automatic backup chain.
copy-only
Specifying full physical paths is unsupported, so all corresponding scenarios have to be supported differently: RESTORE DB doesn't support WITH MOVE, CREATE DB doesn't allow physical paths, BULK INSERT works with Azure blobs only, etc.
SQL Managed Instance supportsMicrosoft Entra authenticationandWindows Authentication for Microsoft Entra principals (Preview).
SQL Managed Instance automatically manages XTP filegroups and files for databases containing In-Memory OLTP objects.
SQL Managed Instance supports SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and can host an SSIS catalog (SSISDB) that stores SSIS packages, but they're executed on a managed Azure-SSIS Integration Runtime (IR) in Azure Data Factory. SeeCreate Azure-SSIS IR in Data Factory. To compare the SSIS features, seeCompare SQL Database to SQL Managed Instance.
SQL Managed Instance supports connectivity only through the TCP protocol. It doesn't support connectivity through named pipes.
You canstop and startthe instance to save on costs.
Business intelligence
Azure SQL Managed Instance doesn't have the Business Intelligence suite natively built-in, but you can use the following services:
SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS)is part ofAzure Data Factory PaaS.
SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS)is a separatePaaSservice in Azure.
SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS), you can usePower BI paginated reportsinstead or host SSRS on an Azure Virtual Machine. While SQL Managed Instance can't run SSRS as a service, it can hostSSRS catalog databasesfor a reporting server installed on Azure Virtual Machine, using SQL Server authentication.
Administration features
SQL Managed Instance enables system administrators to spend less time on administrative tasks because the service either performs them for you or greatly simplifies those tasks. For example,OS/RDBMS installation and patching,dynamic instance resizing and configuration,backups,database replication(including system databases),high availability configuration, and configuration of health andperformance monitoringdata streams.
For more information, seea list of supported and unsupported SQL Managed Instance features, andT-SQL differences between SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server.
Save on costs
As with any Azure service, when you use Azure SQL Managed Instance, you are billed for the compute, storage, and license your product uses.
SQL Managed Instance offers several ways to save on costs:
Azure Hybrid Benefit: If you have Software Assurance, you can use theAzure Hybrid Benefitto save up to 55% on licensing costs. The Azure Hybrid Benefit for SQL Server allows you to use your on-premises SQL Server licenses to run Azure SQL Managed Instance at a reduced rate.
Azure Reservations: You can save up to 80% on costs by purchasingreservationsfor SQL Managed Instance.
Instance pools: If you have multiple managed instances, you can save on costs by usinginstance pools, which also supportreservations.
Instance stop and start: You canstop and startyour managed instance to save on costs. When you stop your instance, you only pay for storage, and you can restart it at any time.
Free DR replica: You can save on licensing costs by designating a secondary replica fordisaster recovery (DR) only.
vCore-based purchasing model
ThevCore-based purchasing modelfor SQL Managed Instance gives you flexibility, control, transparency, and a straightforward way to translate on-premises workload requirements to the cloud. This model allows you to change compute, memory, and storage based upon your workload needs. The vCore model is also eligible for up to 55 percent savings with theAzure Hybrid Benefitfor SQL Server.
In the vCore model, you can choose hardware configurations as follows:
Standard Series (Gen5)logical CPUs are based on Intel® E5-2673 v4 (Broadwell) 2.3 GHz, Intel® SP-8160 (Skylake), and Intel® 8272CL (Cascade Lake) 2.5-GHz processors, with5.1 GB of RAM per CPU vCore, fast NVMe SSD, hyper-threaded logical core, and compute sizes between 4 and 80 cores.
Premium Serieslogical CPUs are based on Intel® 8370C (Ice Lake) 2.8-GHz processors, with7 GB of RAM per CPU vCore(up to 128 vCores), fast NVMe SSD, hyper-threaded logical core, and compute sizes between 4 and 128 cores.
Premium Series Memory-Optimizedlogical CPUs are based on Intel® 8370C (Ice Lake) 2.8-GHz processors, with13.6 GB of RAM per CPU vCore(up to 64 vCores), fast NVMe SSD, hyper-threaded logical core, and compute sizes between 4 and 64 cores.
Find more information about the difference between hardware configurations inSQL Managed Instance resource limits.
Service tiers
Theservice tiergenerally defines the storage architecture, space and I/O limits, and business continuity options related to availability and disaster recovery.
SQL Managed Instance is available in two service tiers:
General Purpose: Designed for applications with typical performance and I/O latency requirements. You can use the upgradedNext-gen General Purpose service tier (preview)for improved performance metrics, and greater resource flexibility.
Business Critical: Designed for applications with low I/O latency requirements and minimal impact of underlying maintenance operations on the workload.
High availability
By default, Azure SQL Managed Instance achievesavailabilitythrough local redundancy, making your instance available during maintenance operations, issues with data center outages, and other problems with the SQL database engine. However, to minimize a potential outage to an entire zone impacting your data, you can achievehigh availabilityby enablingzone redundancy. Without zone redundancy, failovers happen locally within the same data center, which might result in your instance being unavailable until the outage is resolved - the only way to recover is through a disaster recovery solution, such as through afailover group, or ageo-restoreof a geo-redundant backup.
Management operations
Azure SQL Managed Instance provides management operations that you can use to automatically deploy new managed instances, update instance properties, and delete instances when no longer needed. Detailed explanation of management operations can be found inmanagement operations.
Managed Instance link
TheManaged Instance linkuses distributed availability group technology to synchronize databases between SQL Server and Azure SQL Managed Instance, unlocking a number of scenarios, such as:
Using Azure services without migrating to the cloud
Offloading read-only workloads to Azure
Disaster recovery
Migrating to Azure
License-free DR benefit
With Azure SQL Managed Instance, you can save on vCore licensing costs by designating a secondary replica for disaster recovery (DR) only. To learn more, reviewLicense-free DR benefit.
Advanced security and compliance
SQL Managed Instance comes with advanced security features provided by the Azure platform and the SQL Server database engine.
Security isolation
SQL Managed Instance provides additional security isolation from other tenants on the Azure platform. Security isolation includes:
Native virtual network implementationand connectivity to your on-premises environment using Azure ExpressRoute or VPN Gateway.
In a default deployment, the SQL endpoint is exposed only through a private IP address, allowing safe connectivity from private Azure or hybrid networks.
Single-tenant with dedicated underlying infrastructure (compute, storage).
The following diagram outlines various connectivity options for your applications:

To learn more details about VNet integration and networking policy enforcement at the subnet level, seeVNet architecture for managed instancesandConnect your application to a managed instance.
Important
Place multiple managed instances in the same subnet, wherever that is allowed by your security requirements, as that will bring you additional benefits. Co-locating instances in the same subnet significantly simplifies networking infrastructure maintenance and reduces instance provisioning time, since a long provisioning duration is associated with the cost of deploying the first managed instance in a subnet.
Security features
Azure SQL Managed Instance provides a set of advanced security features that can be used to protect your data.
SQL Managed Instance auditingtracks database events and writes them to an audit log file placed in your Azure storage account. Auditing can help you maintain regulatory compliance, understand database activity, and gain insight into discrepancies and anomalies that could indicate business concerns or suspected security violations.
Data encryption in motion - SQL Managed Instance secures your data by providing encryption for data in motion using Transport Layer Security (TLS). In addition to TLS, SQL Managed Instance offers protection of sensitive data in-flight, at-rest, and during query processing withAlways Encrypted. Always Encrypted offers data security against breaches involving theft of critical data. For example, with Always Encrypted, credit card numbers are always stored encrypted in the database, even during query processing, allowing decryption at the point of use by authorized staff or applications that need to process that data.
Advanced Threat Protectioncomplementsauditingby providing an additional layer of security intelligence built into the service that detects unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit databases. You're alerted about suspicious activities, potential vulnerabilities, and SQL injection attacks, as well as anomalous database access patterns. Advanced Threat Protection alerts can be viewed fromMicrosoft Defender for Cloud. They provide details of suspicious activity and recommend actions to investigate and mitigate the threat.
Dynamic data maskinglimits sensitive data exposure by masking it to nonprivileged users. Dynamic data masking helps prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data by enabling you to designate how much of the sensitive data to reveal with minimal impact on the application layer. It's a policy-based security feature that hides sensitive data in the result set of a query over designated database fields, while the data in the database is unchanged.
Row-level security(RLS) enables you to control access to rows in a database table based on the characteristics of the user executing a query (such as by group membership or execution context). RLS simplifies the design and coding of security in your application. RLS enables you to implement restrictions on data row access. For example, ensuring that workers can only access data rows that are pertinent to their department, or restricting data access only to relevant users.
Transparent data encryption (TDE)encrypts SQL Managed Instance data files, known as encrypting data at-rest. TDE performs real-time I/O encryption and decryption of data and log files. The encryption uses a database encryption key (DEK), which is stored in the database boot record for availability during recovery. You can protect all your databases in a managed instance with transparent data encryption. TDE is proven SQL Server encryption-at-rest technology that is required by many compliance standards to protect against theft of storage media.
Migration of an encrypted database to SQL Managed Instance is supported via Azure Database Migration Service or native restore. If you plan to migrate an encrypted database using native restore, migration of the existing TDE certificate from the SQL Server instance to SQL Managed Instance is a required step. For more information about migration options, seeSQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance Guide.

Microsoft Entra integration
SQL Managed Instance supports traditional SQL Server database engine logins and logins integrated with Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory). Microsoft Entra server principals (logins) are an Azure cloud version of on-premises database logins that use in your on-premises environment. Microsoft Entra server principals (logins) enable you to specify users and groups from your Microsoft Entra tenant as true instance-scoped principals, capable of performing any instance-level operation, including cross-database queries within the same managed instance.
SQL Managed Instance enables you to centrally manage identities of database users and other Microsoft services withMicrosoft Entra integration. This capability simplifies permission management and enhances security. Microsoft Entra ID supportsmultifactor authenticationto increase data and application security while supporting a single sign-on process.
A new syntax is introduced to create Microsoft Entra server principals (logins),FROM EXTERNAL PROVIDER. For more information on the syntax, seeCREATE LOGIN, and review theProvision a Microsoft Entra administrator for SQL Managed Instancearticle.
Authentication
SQL Managed Instance authentication refers to how users prove their identity when connecting to the database. SQL Managed Instance supports three types of authentication:
SQL Authentication: This authentication method uses a username and password.
Microsoft Entra authentication: This authentication method uses identities managed by Microsoft Entra ID and is supported for managed and integrated domains. Use Active Directory authentication (integrated security)whenever possible.
Windows authentication for Microsoft Entra principals:Kerberos authentication for Microsoft Entra principalsenables Windows authentication for Azure SQL Managed Instance. Windows authentication for managed instances empowers customers to move existing services to the cloud while maintaining a seamless user experience and provides the basis for infrastructure modernization.
Authorization
Authorization refers to what a user can do within a database in Azure SQL Managed Instance, and is controlled by your user account's database role memberships and object-level permissions. SQL Managed Instance has the same authorization capabilities as SQL Server 2022.
Database migration
SQL Managed Instance targets user scenarios with mass database migration from on-premises or IaaS database implementations. SQL Managed Instance supports several database migration options that are discussed in the migration guides. SeeMigration overview: SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instancefor more information.
Back up and restore
The migration approach uses SQL backups to Azure Blob storage. Backups stored in Azure Blob Storage can be directly restored into a managed instance using theT-SQL RESTORE command.
For a quickstart showing how to restore the Wide World Importers - Standard database backup file, seeRestore a backup file to a managed instance. This quickstart shows that you have to upload a backup file to Azure Blob Storage and secure it using a shared access signature (SAS).
For information about restore from URL, seeNative RESTORE from URL.
Important
Backups from a managed instance can only be restored to other managed instances, or to SQL Server 2022. They cannot be restored to other versions of SQL Server, or to Azure SQL Database.
Database Migration Service
Azure Database Migration Service is a fully managed service designed to enable seamless migrations from multiple database sources to Azure data platforms with minimal downtime. This service streamlines the tasks required to move existing third-party and SQL Server databases to Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Managed Instance, and SQL Server on Azure VM. SeeHow to migrate your on-premises database to SQL Managed Instance using Database Migration Service.
Managed Instance link
TheManaged Instance linkuses distributed availability groups to extend your SQL Server on-premises Always On availability group hosted anywhere to Azure SQL Managed Instance in a safe and secure manner, replicating data in near real-time.
The link feature facilitates migrating from SQL Server to SQL Managed Instance, which enables:
The most performant, minimal downtime migration, compared to all other solutions available today.
True online migration to SQL Managed Instance in any service tier.
Because the link feature enables minimal downtime migration, you can migrate to your managed instance as you maintain your primary workload online. Although it's currently possible to achieve online migrations to the General Purpose service tier with other solutions, the link feature is the only solution that allows true online migrations to the Business Critical tier.
Programmatically identify a managed instance
The following table shows several properties, accessible through Transact-SQL, that you can use to detect that your application is working with SQL Managed Instance and retrieve important properties.
@@VERSION
SERVERPROPERTY('Edition')
SERVERPROPERTY('EngineEdition')
@@SERVERNAME
SERVERPROPERTY('ServerName')
<instanceName>
<dnsPrefix>
<instanceName>
<dnsPrefix>
SERVERPROPERTY('ProductUpdateType')
Related content
Quickstart: Create Azure SQL Managed Instance
Features comparison: Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance
Connectivity architecture for Azure SQL Managed Instance
SQL Managed Instance migration using Database Migration Service
Monitor Azure SQL Managed Instance using Azure SQL Analytics
SQL Database pricing
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources