Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes validation
Article
2025-04-22
10 contributors
In this article
The Azure Arc team works with key industry Kubernetes offering providers to validate Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes with their Kubernetes distributions. Future major and minor versions of Kubernetes distributions released by these providers will be validated for compatibility with Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes.
Important
Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes works with any Kubernetes clusters that are certified by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), even if they haven't been validated through conformance tests and are not listed on this page.
Validated distributions
The following Microsoft-provided Kubernetes distributions and infrastructure providers have successfully passed the conformance tests for Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes:
The following providers and their corresponding Kubernetes distributions have successfully passed the conformance tests for Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes:
Scenarios validated
The conformance tests run as part of the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes validation cover the following scenarios:
Connect Kubernetes clusters to Azure Arc:Deploy Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes agent Helm chart on cluster.Agents send cluster metadata to Azure.
Connect Kubernetes clusters to Azure Arc:
Deploy Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes agent Helm chart on cluster.
Agents send cluster metadata to Azure.
Configuration:Create configuration on top of Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource.Flux, needed for setting upGitOps workflow, is deployed on the cluster.Flux pulls manifests and Helm charts from demo Git repo and deploys to cluster.
Configuration:
Create configuration on top of Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource.
Flux, needed for setting upGitOps workflow, is deployed on the cluster.
Flux pulls manifests and Helm charts from demo Git repo and deploys to cluster.
Next steps
Learn how to connect an existing Kubernetes cluster to Azure Arc
Learn about theAzure Arc agentsdeployed on Kubernetes clusters when connecting them to Azure Arc.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources