Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Sustainable workloads
Article
2022-10-12
5 contributors
In this article
This section of the Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework aims to address the challenges of building sustainable workloads on Azure. Review the provided guidance that applies Well-Architected best practices as a technical foundation for building and operating sustainable solutions on Azure.
We encourage you to also read more about theMicrosoft Cloud for Sustainabilityfor opportunities to leverage the capabilities of that platform as part of your solution architecture. However, guidance found in this article series is focused onanysolutions you're building or operating on Azure.
Additionally, read aboutThe Carbon Benefits of Cloud Computing: a Study of the Microsoft Cloudto learn more about how Azure is more energy efficient and carbon efficient than on-premises solutions.
What is a sustainable workload?
The termworkloadrefers to a collection of application resources that support a common business goal or the execution of a common business process, with multiple services, such as APIs and data stores, working together to deliver specific end-to-end functionality.
Withsustainability, we refer to the environmental impact of our workloads.
Asustainable workloadtherefore describes the practice of designing solutions that maximize utilization while minimizing waste, ultimately reducing the footprint on the environment.
Cloud efficiency overview
Making workloads more cloud efficient requires combining efforts around cost optimization, reducing carbon emissions, and optimizing energy consumption. Optimizing the application's cost is the initial step in making workloads more sustainable.
Here's a conceptual overview of cloud efficiency in this context:

Scoring andmeasuring the cloud efficiencyis essential to understand whether changes tracked over time have any impact.
Learn about building more sustainable and efficient workloads by starting with the design area for sustainableApplication Design.
What are the common challenges?
Building and designing sustainable workloads on Microsoft Azure can be challenging for these main reasons:
Understanding if your workloads are in alignment with sustainability targets. It requires assessments of current workloads to determine if they're designed in a sustainable way.
Designing workloads that are natively environmentally friendly and optimized.
Measuring and tracking the emissions of your workloads.
Is sustainability only about performance and cost?
Whileperformance efficiencyandcost optimizationare areas of strong focus for designing sustainable workloads, the other pillars of the Well-Architected Framework are equally important when building long-term sustainable workloads on Azure.
Security: how the security appliances in a workload are optimized and designed to auto-scale will have an impact on the environment.
Reliability: designing reliable workloads that meet sustainability guidelines from the Green Software Foundation can greatly reduce the workloads' carbon and electricity footprint.
Operational Excellence: how a workload is able to effectively respond to operational issues can ultimately reduce carbon emissions.
What are the key design areas?
Sustainable guidance within this series is composed of architectural considerations and recommendations oriented around these key design areas.
Decisions made in one design area can impact or influence decisions across the entire design. The focus is ultimately on building a sustainable solution to minimize the footprint and impact on the environment.
We recommend that readers familiarize themselves with these design areas, reviewing provided considerations and recommendations to better understand the consequences of encompassed decisions.
Next step
Review the sustainability design methodology.
Design methodology
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources