Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Spring Apps landing zone accelerator
Article
2023-09-01
6 contributors
In this article
Azure Spring Apps landing zone accelerator is intended for an application team that's building and deploying Spring Boot applications in a typical enterprise landing zone design. As the workload owner, use architectural guidance provided in this accelerator to achieve your target technical state with confidence.
What's included in the accelerator
The landing zone accelerator is a set of design considerations and reference architecture that's backed by an implementation.
Design areascover considerations and recommendations for common technical areas that integrate with the centralized services.Identity and access managementNetwork topology and connectivitySecurityMonitor operations
Design areascover considerations and recommendations for common technical areas that integrate with the centralized services.
Identity and access management
Network topology and connectivity
Security
Monitor operations
Reference architectureprovides design guidance that applies the recommendations to an example Spring app. The practical approach is used as design guidance for greenfield implementation and as an assessment for brownfield customers that already use Spring Boot apps.For more information about this architecture, seeAzure Spring Apps integrated with landing zones.
Reference architectureprovides design guidance that applies the recommendations to an example Spring app. The practical approach is used as design guidance for greenfield implementation and as an assessment for brownfield customers that already use Spring Boot apps.
For more information about this architecture, seeAzure Spring Apps integrated with landing zones.

Reference implementationaccompanies the architecture and demonstrates the best practices. It provides infrastructure as code (IaC) templates for a sample Spring app.
Reference implementationaccompanies the architecture and demonstrates the best practices. It provides infrastructure as code (IaC) templates for a sample Spring app.
For more information, seeAzure Spring Apps Landing Zone Accelerator.
The landing zone accelerator is the next evolution of thearchived reference architecture.
Integration with platform landing zones
The accelerator assumes that the enterprise (platform) landing zones are based onAzure landing zoneguidance. The platform landing zones have shared services that centralized teams manage. You can focus your efforts on application development and workload resources.
It's highly recommended that you have a good understanding of the integration points between the shared resources and workload resources. If the platform requires changes, work with the centralized team to get the changes implemented with a shared responsibility mindset. For example, communicate the expected potential of the workload early so that the central networking team can allocate a virtual network with address space that's large enough to accommodate that growth.
Next steps
Identity and access management
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources