Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Convert single-tenant app to multitenant on Microsoft Entra ID
Article
2024-11-13
30 contributors
In this article
If you offer a Software as a Service (SaaS) application to many organizations, you can configure your application to accept sign-ins from any Microsoft Entra tenant by converting it to multitenant. Users in any Microsoft Entra tenant will be able to sign in to your application after consenting to use their account with your application.
For existing apps with its own account system (or other sign-ins from other cloud providers), you should add sign-in code via OAuth2, OpenID Connect, or Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML), and put a"Sign in with Microsoft" buttonin your application.
In this how-to guide, you undertake the four steps needed to convert a single tenant app into a Microsoft Entra multitenant app:
Update your application registration to be multitenant
Update your code to send requests to the/commonendpoint
/common
Update your code to handle multiple issuer values
Understand user and admin consent and make appropriate code changes
If you want to try using one of our samples, refer toBuild a multitenant SaaS web application that calls Microsoft Graph using Microsoft Entra ID and OpenID Connect
Prerequisites
A Microsoft Entra tenant. If you don't have one, you can create one in ourQuickstart: Create a new tenant in Microsoft Entra ID
An application registered in the Microsoft identity platform. If you don't have one, you can create one in ourQuickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform.
Familiarity withTenancy in Microsoft Entra ID.
An integrated development environment (IDE) that enables you to edit your application code.
Update registration to be multitenant
By default, web app/API registrations in Microsoft Entra ID are single-tenant upon creation. To make the registration multitenant, sign in to theMicrosoft Entra admin centerand select the app registration that you want to update. With the app registration open, select theAuthenticationpane and navigate to theSupported account typessection. Change the setting toAccounts in any organizational directory.
When a single-tenant application is created in the Microsoft Entra admin center, one of the items listed on theOverviewpage is theApplication ID URI. This is one of the ways an application is identified in protocol messages, and can be added at any time. The App ID URI for single tenant apps can be globally unique within that tenant. In contrast, for multitenant apps it must be globally unique across all tenants, ensuring that Microsoft Entra ID can find the app across all tenants.
For example, if the name of your tenant wascontoso.onmicrosoft.comthen a valid App ID URI would behttps://contoso.onmicrosoft.com/myapp. If the App ID URI doesn’t follow this pattern, setting an application as multitenant fails.
contoso.onmicrosoft.com
https://contoso.onmicrosoft.com/myapp
Update your code to send requests to/common
/common
With a multitenant application, the application can't immediately tell which tenant the user is from, so requests can't be sent to a tenant’s endpoint. Instead, requests are sent to a common endpoint (https://login.microsoftonline.com/common) that serves across all Microsoft Entra tenants, acting as a central hub that handles requests.
https://login.microsoftonline.com/common
Open your app in your IDE and edit your code and change the value for your tenant ID to/common. For SAML apps, this can be configured in the identity provider XML file. This endpoint isn't a tenant or an issuer itself. When the Microsoft identity platform receives a request on the/commonendpoint, it signs the user in, discovering which tenant the user is from. This endpoint works with all of the authentication protocols supported by the Microsoft Entra ID (OpenID Connect, OAuth 2.0, SAML 2.0, WS-Federation).
/common
/common
The sign-in response to the application then contains a token representing the user. The issuer value in the token tells an application what tenant the user is from. When a response returns from the/commonendpoint, the issuer value in the token corresponds to the user’s tenant.
/common
Note
There are, in reality 2 authorities for multitenant applications:
https://login.microsoftonline.com/commonfor applications processing accounts in any organizational directory (any Microsoft Entra directory) and personal Microsoft accounts (such as Skype, XBox).
https://login.microsoftonline.com/common
https://login.microsoftonline.com/organizationsfor applications processing accounts in any organizational directory (any Microsoft Entra directory):
https://login.microsoftonline.com/organizations
The explanations in this document usecommon. But you can replace it byorganizationsif your application doesn't support Microsoft personal accounts.
common
organizations
Update your code to handle multiple issuer values
Web applications and web APIs receive and validate tokens from the Microsoft identity platform. Native client applications don't validate access tokens and must treat them as opaque. They instead request and receive tokens from the Microsoft identity platform, and do so to send them to APIs, where they're then validated.
Multitenant applications must perform more checks when validating a token. A multitenant application is configured to consume keys metadata from/organizationsor/commonkeys URLs. The application must validate that theissuerproperty in the published metadata matches theissclaim in the token, in addition to the usual check that theissclaim in the token contains the tenant ID (tid) claim. For more information, seeValidate tokens.
/organizations
/common
issuer
iss
iss
tid
Understand user and admin consent and make appropriate code changes
For a user to sign in to an application in Microsoft Entra ID, the application must be represented in the user’s tenant. The organization is then allowed to do things like apply unique policies when users from their tenant sign in to the application. For a single-tenant application, one can use the registration via theMicrosoft Entra admin center.
For a multitenant application, the initial registration for the application resides in the Microsoft Entra tenant used by the developer. When a user from a different tenant signs in to the application for the first time, Microsoft Entra ID asks them to consent to the permissions requested by the application. If they consent, then a representation of the application called aservice principalis created in the user’s tenant, and sign-in can continue. A delegation is also created in the directory that records the user’s consent to the application. For details on the application's Application and ServicePrincipal objects, and how they relate to each other, seeApplication objects and service principal objects.

The permissions requested by the application affect the consent experience. The Microsoft identity platform supports two kinds of permissions;
Delegated: This permission grants an application the ability to act as a signed in user for a subset of the things the user can do. For example, you can grant an application the delegated permission to read the signed in user’s calendar.
App-only: This permission is granted directly to the identity of the application. For example, you can grant an application the app-only permission to read the list of users in a tenant, regardless of who is signed in to the application.
Regular users can consent to some permissions, while others require a tenant administrator’s consent.
To learn more about user and admin consent, seeConfigure the admin consent workflow.
Admin consent
App-only permissions always require a tenant administrator’s consent. If your application requests an app-only permission and a user tries to sign in to the application, an error message is displayed saying the user isn’t able to consent.
Certain delegated permissions also require a tenant administrator’s consent. For example, the ability to write back to Microsoft Entra ID as the signed in user requires a tenant administrator’s consent. Like app-only permissions, if an ordinary user tries to sign in to an application that requests a delegated permission that requires administrator consent, the app receives an error. The developer that published the resource determines whether a permission requires admin consent, and you can find this information in the resource's documentation. The permissions documentation for theMicrosoft Graph APIindicate which permissions require admin consent.
If your application uses permissions that require admin consent, consider adding a button or link where the admin can initiate the action. The request your application sends for this action is the usual OAuth2/OpenID Connect authorization request that also includes theprompt=consentquery string parameter. After the admin consents and the service principal is created in the customer’s tenant, subsequent sign-in requests don't need theprompt=consentparameter. Since the administrator has approved the requested permissions, no other users in the tenant are prompted for consent.
prompt=consent
prompt=consent
A tenant administrator can disable the ability for regular users to consent to applications. If this capability is disabled, admin consent is always required for the application to be used in the tenant. You can test your application with end-user consent disabled, in the Microsoft Entra admin center. InEnterprise applications>Consent and permissions, check theDo not allow user consentoption.
Theprompt=consentparameter can also be used by applications that request permissions that don't require admin consent. An example use case is if the application requires an experience where the tenant admin “signs up” one time, and no other users are prompted for consent from that point on.
prompt=consent
If an application requires admin consent and an admin signs in without theprompt=consentparameter being sent, when the admin successfully consents to the application it appliesonly for their user account. Regular users won't able to sign in or consent to the application. This feature is useful if you want to give the tenant administrator the ability to explore your application before allowing other users access.
prompt=consent
Consent and multi-tier applications
Your application may have multiple tiers, with each represented by its own registration in Microsoft Entra ID. For example, a native application that calls a web API, or a web application that calls a web API. In both of these cases, the client (native app or web app) requests permissions to call the resource (web API). For the client to be successfully consented into a customer’s tenant, all resources to which it requests permissions must already exist in the customer’s tenant. If this condition isn’t met, Microsoft Entra ID returns an error that the resource must be added first.
If your logical application consists of two or more application registrations, for example a separate client and resource, you can encounter some problems. For example, how do you get the resource into the external tenant first? Microsoft Entra ID covers this case by enabling client and resource to be consented in a single step. The user sees the sum total of the permissions requested by both the client and resource on the consent page. To enable this behavior, the resource’s application registration must include the client’s App ID as aknownClientApplicationsin itsapplication manifest. For example:
knownClientApplications
"knownClientApplications": ["12ab34cd-56ef-78gh-90ij11kl12mn"]
"knownClientApplications": ["12ab34cd-56ef-78gh-90ij11kl12mn"]
You can refer to themultitenant application samplefor a demonstration. The following diagram provides an overview of consent for a multi-tier app registered in a single tenant.

A similar case happens if the different tiers of an application are registered in different tenants. For example, consider the case of building a native client application that calls the Exchange Online API. To develop the native application, and later for the native application to run in a customer’s tenant, the Exchange Online service principal must be present. Here, the developer and customer must purchase Exchange Online for the service principal to be created in their tenants.
If it's an API built by an organization other than Microsoft, the developer of the API needs to provide a way for their customers to consent the application into their customers' tenants. The recommended design is for the third-party developer to build the API such that it can also function as a web client to implement sign-up. You can;
Follow the earlier sections to ensure the API implements the multitenant application registration/code requirements.
In addition to exposing the API's scopes/roles, make sure the registration includes the "Sign in and read user profile" permission (provided by default).
Implement a sign-in/sign-up page in the web client and follow theadmin consentguidance.
Once the user consents to the application, the service principal and consent delegation links are created in their tenant, and the native application can get tokens for the API.
The following diagram provides an overview of consent for a multi-tier app registered in different tenants.

Revoking consent
Users and administrators can revoke consent to your application at any time:
Users revoke access to individual applications by removing them from theirAccess Panel Applicationslist.
Administrators revoke access to applications by removing them using theEnterprise applicationssection of the Microsoft Entra admin center. Select the application and navigate to thePermissionstab to revoke access.
If an administrator consents to an application for all users in a tenant, users can't revoke access individually. Only the administrator can revoke access, and only for the whole application.
Multitenant applications and caching access tokens
Multitenant applications can also get access tokens to call APIs that are protected by Microsoft Entra ID. A common error when using the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) with a multitenant application is to initially request a token for a user using/common, receive a response, then request a subsequent token for that same user also using/common. Because the response from Microsoft Entra ID comes from a tenant, not/common, MSAL caches the token as being from the tenant. The subsequent call to/commonto get an access token for the user misses the cache entry, and the user is prompted to sign in again. To avoid missing the cache, make sure subsequent calls for an already signed in user are made to the tenant’s endpoint.
/common
/common
/common
/common
See also
Multitenant application sample
Application objects and service principal objects
Integrating applications with Microsoft Entra ID
Overview of the Consent Framework
Microsoft Graph API permission scopes
Access tokens
Microsoft Graph API
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources