Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
dcount() (aggregation function)
Article
2025-02-05
2 contributors
In this article
Applies to: âœMicrosoft FabricâœAzure Data ExplorerâœAzure MonitorâœMicrosoft Sentinel
Calculates an estimate of the number of distinct values that are taken by a scalar expression in the summary group.
Null values are ignored and don't factor into the calculation.
Note
Thedcount()aggregation function is primarily useful for estimating the cardinality of huge sets. It trades accuracy for performance, and might return a result that varies between executions. The order of inputs might have an effect on its output.
dcount()
Note
This function is used in conjunction with thesummarize operator.
Syntax
dcount(expr[,accuracy])
dcount
(
,
)
Learn more aboutsyntax conventions.
Parameters
string
int
1
Returns
Returns an estimate of the number of distinct values ofexprin the group.
Example
This example shows how many types of storm events happened in each state.
Run the query
StormEvents
| summarize DifferentEvents=dcount(EventType) by State
| order by DifferentEvents
StormEvents
| summarize DifferentEvents=dcount(EventType) by State
| order by DifferentEvents
The results table shown includes only the first 10 rows.
Estimation accuracy
This function uses a variant of theHyperLogLog (HLL) algorithm, which does a stochastic estimation of set cardinality. The algorithm provides a "knob" that can be used to balance accuracy and execution time per memory size:
Note
The "entry count" column is the number of 1-byte counters in the HLL implementation.
The algorithm includes some provisions for doing a perfect count (zero error), if the set cardinality is small enough:
When the accuracy level is1, 1000 values are returned
1
When the accuracy level is2, 8000 values are returned
2
The error bound is probabilistic, not a theoretical bound. The value is the standard deviation of error distribution (the sigma), and 99.7% of the estimations will have a relative error of under 3 x sigma.
The following image shows the probability distribution function of the relative
estimation error, in percentages, for all supported accuracy settings:

Related content
Aggregation function types at a glance
dcountif() (aggregation function)
count()
count_distinct() (aggregation function)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources