Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Service Health Portal
Article
2025-02-18
7 contributors
In this article
The Azure Service Health portal experience lets users engage with service events and manage actions to maintain the business continuity of impacted applications.

Highlights
The Health Alerts blade allows you to search for and sort your alert rules by name. You can also group alert rules by subscription and status.
You can click directly on any alert rule for additional details and see the alert firing history.

Note
The classic experience for the Health Alerts blade will be retired. Users will not be able to switch back from the new experience once it is rolled out.
Important
Customers are observing a mismatch in the number of health advisories between the Azure Resource Graph query results and the service health blade.
This is an expected behavior as the backend query for the service health blade on the portal merges the results by tracking ID. So, from Resource Graph, the responses contain multiple communications for one tracking ID.
Although the Resource Graph query returns multiple responses for each tracking ID, the service health blade on the portal aggregates the results into one event.
As a result, the Resource Graph query returns a significantly higher number of health advisories compared to what is shown on the portal, leading to confusion and concerns regarding the accuracy of the service health information.
Users withtenant admin access, can view events at the tenant scope. The Service Issues, Health Advisories, Security Advisories, and Health History blades show events both at tenant and subscription levels.

You can filter on the scope (tenant or subscription) within the blades. The scope column indicates when an event is at the tenant or subscription level.

The Service Issues blade shows an enhanced version of the map with all the user services across the world. This helps you find services that might be impacted by an outage easily.
The issues details look and feel has been updated, for better readability.
Planned Maintenance
You can view all planned maintenance.
Health Advisories
You will see Health Advisories based on your access level.
Resource Health
This page watches your resource and tells you if it's running as expected. There are links that will open directly to information about the health of your selected resource.
Alerts
Open this page to view any active Health Alerts and click on the link supplied for more details.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources