Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Resource naming and tagging decision guide
Article
2024-05-29
7 contributors
In this article
Organize your cloud-based resources so that your IT team can easily work with them. For complicated or complex deployments, use naming and tagging standards to organize your resources for:
Resource management: Your IT teams need to quickly locate resources that are associated with specific workloads, regions, environments, ownership groups, or other important information. Organize resources to ensure that you properly assign organizational roles and access permissions.
Resource management: Your IT teams need to quickly locate resources that are associated with specific workloads, regions, environments, ownership groups, or other important information. Organize resources to ensure that you properly assign organizational roles and access permissions.
Cost management and optimization: Ensure that your IT team understands the resources and workloads that each team uses so that business groups know how much cloud resources consume. Cost-related tags support the following types of information:Cloud accounting modelsReturn on investment (ROI) calculationsCost trackingBudgetsAlertsAutomate cost governance
Cost management and optimization: Ensure that your IT team understands the resources and workloads that each team uses so that business groups know how much cloud resources consume. Cost-related tags support the following types of information:
Cloud accounting models
Return on investment (ROI) calculations
Cost tracking
Budgets
Alerts
Automate cost governance
Operations management: Ensure that the operations management team has visibility into business commitments and service-level agreements (SLAs) for ongoing operations.
Operations management: Ensure that the operations management team has visibility into business commitments and service-level agreements (SLAs) for ongoing operations.
Security: Classify data and determine the security impact to prepare for breaches or other security problems. Create tags fordata classificationto ensure that your operation is secure.
Security: Classify data and determine the security impact to prepare for breaches or other security problems. Create tags fordata classificationto ensure that your operation is secure.
Governance and regulatory compliance: Maintain consistency across resources to help identify divergence from policies.Prescriptive guidance for resource taggingdemonstrates how one of the tagging patterns that are described inResource tagging patterns, later in this article, can help with deployment of governance practices. Similar patterns are available to evaluate regulatory compliance by using tags.
Governance and regulatory compliance: Maintain consistency across resources to help identify divergence from policies.Prescriptive guidance for resource taggingdemonstrates how one of the tagging patterns that are described inResource tagging patterns, later in this article, can help with deployment of governance practices. Similar patterns are available to evaluate regulatory compliance by using tags.
Automation: Have a proper organizational scheme so you can use automation to create resources, monitor operations, and create DevOps processes. Automation also makes resources easier for IT to manage.
Automation: Have a proper organizational scheme so you can use automation to create resources, monitor operations, and create DevOps processes. Automation also makes resources easier for IT to manage.
Workload optimization: Use tagging to help resolve broad problems, identify patterns, and identify the assets that a single workload requires. Tag all assets that are associated with each workload so that you can deeply analyze your mission-critical workloads, which helps you make sound architectural decisions.
Workload optimization: Use tagging to help resolve broad problems, identify patterns, and identify the assets that a single workload requires. Tag all assets that are associated with each workload so that you can deeply analyze your mission-critical workloads, which helps you make sound architectural decisions.
Tagging decision guide
You can have a simple or complex approach to tagging. Your approach can support IT teams that manage cloud workloads, or your approach can integrate information that's related to all aspects of the business.

The following table describes the considerations in the diagram.
A tagging scheme that aligns with IT, such as tagging based on the workload, application, environment, or region, reduces the complexity of monitoring assets. With less complexity, you can simplify the process of making management decisions that are based on operational requirements.
Tagging schemes that align with business, like accounting, business ownership, or business criticality, might require a larger investment of time. You need to invest more time to create tagging standards that reflect business interests and maintain those standards in the future. This investment yields a tagging system that provides improved accounting for costs and value of IT assets to the overall business. Linking an asset's business value to its operational cost can change the view of IT as a cost center within your wider organization.
Baseline naming conventions
Use a standardized naming convention as a starting point to organize your cloud-hosted resources. When you have a properly structured naming system, you can quickly identify resources for both management and accounting purposes. You might have existing IT-aligned naming conventions in other parts of your organization. If so, consider whether your cloud naming conventions should align with them, or if you should establish separate cloud-based standards.
Note
Naming rules and restrictionsvary depending on the Azure resource. Your naming conventions must comply with these rules.
Resource tagging patterns
In addition to consistent naming conventions, cloud platforms also support the ability to tag resources, which provides more extensive organization.
Tags are metadata elements that are attached to resources and are valid across all regions under your tenant. Tags consist of pairs of key-value strings. The values that you include in these pairs are based on the requirements of your business. For more information, seeMinimum suggested tags. When you incorporate your comprehensive naming and tagging policy, apply a consistent set of global tags for overall governance.
When you plan for tagging, consider the following questions to determine the kind of information that your resource tags must support:
Do your naming and tagging policies need to integrate with existing policies within your company?
Do your naming and tagging policies need to integrate with existing policies within your company?
Will you implement a chargeback or showback accounting system? Do you need to associate resources with accounting information for departments, business groups, and teams in more detail than a simple subscription-level breakdown provides?
Will you implement a chargeback or showback accounting system? Do you need to associate resources with accounting information for departments, business groups, and teams in more detail than a simple subscription-level breakdown provides?
Should tags represent details for a resource, such as regulatory compliance requirements? What about operational details such as uptime requirements, patching schedules, or security requirements?
Should tags represent details for a resource, such as regulatory compliance requirements? What about operational details such as uptime requirements, patching schedules, or security requirements?
What tags are required for all resources based on centralized IT policy? What tags are optional? Are individual teams allowed to implement their own custom tagging schemes?
What tags are required for all resources based on centralized IT policy? What tags are optional? Are individual teams allowed to implement their own custom tagging schemes?
The following tagging patterns are examples of how you can use tagging to organize cloud assets. These patterns aren't meant to be exclusive, and you can use them in parallel. They provide multiple ways of organizing assets based on your company's needs.
app
catalogsearch1
tier
web
webserver
apache
env
prod
env
staging
env
dev
region
eastus
region
uksouth
confidentiality
private
SLA
24hours
department
finance
program
business-initiative
region
northamerica
businessprocess
support
businessimpact
moderate
revenueimpact
high
Multiregion resource tagging
You can use Azure tags across various Azure regions to logically organize resources. Azure tags aren't tied to a specific location, so you can use the same tagging strategy across all your resources regardless of their location.
In a multiregion environment, consider including region details in your tagging strategy if your naming convention doesn't already cover operational and management requirements.
You can also use tagging to aggregate and compare resources across regions and subscriptions. For example, you might require advanced reporting or resource filtering based on the Azure region where you deploy resources. If you can't align subscriptions to acquire these capabilities, you can use tagging instead.
If the region where you create a resource is a resource object property, you don't need to tag the resource.
Azure has built-in policies to enforce tagging requirements. You can also create custom policies for more specific tagging requirements. For more information, seeAssign policy definitions for tag compliance.
When you create an assignment for a policy, you can specify a resource selector, such asresourceLocation, to target and filter specific regions within a specified scope. For more information, seeCreate a policy assignmentandResource selectors.
Next steps
Resource tagging is just one of the core infrastructure components that requires architectural decisions in a process of cloud adoption. To learn about alternative patterns or models for making design decisions about other types of infrastructure, see thearchitectural decision guides.
Resource tagging is just one of the core infrastructure components that requires architectural decisions in a process of cloud adoption. To learn about alternative patterns or models for making design decisions about other types of infrastructure, see thearchitectural decision guides.
For recommended naming conventions for Azure resources, seeDevelop your naming and tagging strategy for Azure resources.
For recommended naming conventions for Azure resources, seeDevelop your naming and tagging strategy for Azure resources.
For information about applying tags at both the resource group level and individual resource level, seeUse tags to organize your Azure resources and management hierarchy. Use this approach for flexibility in the granularity of accounting reports that are based on applied tags.
For information about applying tags at both the resource group level and individual resource level, seeUse tags to organize your Azure resources and management hierarchy. Use this approach for flexibility in the granularity of accounting reports that are based on applied tags.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources