Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
About Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) to Azure Front Door migration
Article
2025-03-31
3 contributors
In this article
Important
Azure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) will be retired onSeptember 30, 2027. To avoid any service disruption, it's important that youmigrate your Azure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) profilesto Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier by September 30, 2027. For more information, seeAzure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) retirement.
Azure CDN from Edgio was retired onJanuary 15, 2025. For more information, seeAzure CDN from Edgio retirement FAQ.
Azure Front Door Standard and Premium tier were released in March 2022 as the next generation content delivery network service. The newer tiers combine the capabilities of Azure Front Door (classic), Microsoft CDN (classic), and Web Application Firewall (WAF). With features such as Private Link integration, enhanced rules engine and advanced diagnostics you have the ability to secure and accelerate your web applications to bring a better experience to your customers.
We recommend migrating your classic profile to one of the newer tier to benefit from the new features and improvements. To ease the move to the new tiers, Azure Front Door provides a zero-downtime migration to move your workload from Azure Front Door (classic) to either Standard or Premium.
In this article you'll learn about the migration process, understand the breaking changes involved, and what to do before, during and after the migration.
Migration process overview
Migrating to Standard or Premium tier for Azure Front Door happens in either three or five phases depending on if you're using your certificate. The time it takes to migrate depends on the complexity of your Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile. You can expect the migration to take a few minutes for a simple Azure CDN profile and longer for a profile that has multiple domains, backend pools, routing rules and rule engine rules.
Phases of migration
The migration tool checks to see if your Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile is compatible for migration. If validation fails, you're provided with suggestions on how to resolve any issues before you can validate again.
Azure Front Door Standard and Premium require all custom domains to use HTTPS. If you don't have your own certificate, you can use an Azure CDN from Microsoft managed certificate. The certificate is free of charge and gets managed for you.
Azure Front Door Standard and Premium require all custom domains to use HTTPS. If you don't have your own certificate, you can use an Azure CDN from Microsoft managed certificate. The certificate is free of charge and gets managed for you.
There's a one to one mapping for an Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) and Azure Front Door Standard or Premium endpoint. A CDN from Microsoft (classic) endpoint in aStoppedstate can't be migrated. You need to either start the endpoint or delete it before you can validate again.
There's a one to one mapping for an Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) and Azure Front Door Standard or Premium endpoint. A CDN from Microsoft (classic) endpoint in aStoppedstate can't be migrated. You need to either start the endpoint or delete it before you can validate again.
Web Application Firewall (WAF) for Azure CDN from Microsoft is only in preview. If you have a WAF policy associated with your Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile, you need to remove the association before you can validate again. You can create a new WAF policy in Azure Front Door Standard or Premium after migration.
Web Application Firewall (WAF) for Azure CDN from Microsoft is only in preview. If you have a WAF policy associated with your Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile, you need to remove the association before you can validate again. You can create a new WAF policy in Azure Front Door Standard or Premium after migration.
Note
Managed certificate is currentlynot supportedfor Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier in Azure Government Cloud. You'll need to use Bring Your Own Certificate (BYOC) for Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier in Azure Government Cloud or wait until managed certificate is supported.
You can select Standard or Premium based on your business requirements. It's recommended to select Premium tier to take advantage of the advanced security features and capabilities. These include managed WAF rules, enhanced rules engine, bot protection, and private link integration.
Note
If your Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile can qualify to migrate to Standard tier but the number of resources exceeds the Standard tier quota limit, it will be migrated to Premium tier instead.
A standard tier Front Door profilecanbe upgraded to premium tier after migration. However, a premium tier Front Door profilecan'tbe downgraded to standard tier after migration.
Important
You won't be able to make changes to the Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) configuration once the preparation phase has been initiated.
During this step, you can configure managed identity for Azure Front Door to access your certificate in an Azure Key Vault, if you haven't for your Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile. The managed identity is the same in Azure Front Door since they use the same resource provider. Managed identity is required if you're using BYOC (Bring Your Own Certificate). If you're using Azure Front Door managed certificate, you don't need to grant Key Vault access.
This step adds managed identity access to all Azure Key Vaults used in the Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile.
Once migration begins, the Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile gets upgraded to Azure Front Door. After migration, you won't be able to view the Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile in the Azure portal.
If you decided you no longer want to move forward with the migration process, you can selectAbort migration. Aborting the migration deletes the new Azure Front Door profile that was created. The Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) profile remains active and you can continue to use it. Any WAF policy copies need to be manually deleted.
Service charges for Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier start once migration is completed.
Breaking changes when migrating to Standard or Premium tier
Dev-ops
After you migrate your Azure Front Door profile, you'll need to change your Dev-ops script to use the new API, updated Azure PowerShell module, CLI commands and APIs.
Endpoint with hash value
Azure Front Door Standard and Premium endpoints are generated to include a hash value to prevent your domain from being taken over. The format of the endpoint name is<endpointname>-<hashvalue>.z01.azurefd.net. The Front Door (classic) endpoint name will continue to work after migration but we recommend replacing it with the newly created endpoint name from your new Standard or Premium profile. For more information, seeEndpoint domain names. If you're using Azure CDN endpoint in your application code, it's recommended to update using a custom domain name.
<endpointname>-<hashvalue>.z01.azurefd.net
Logs, metrics, core analytics
Diagnostic logs and metrics aren't migrated. Azure Front Door Standard and Premium log fields are different from Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic). Standard and Premium tier has heath probe logging and we recommend that you enable diagnostic logging after you migrate.
Core Analytics aren't supported with Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier. Instead, built-in reports are provided and starts displaying data once the migration is completed. For more information, seeAzure Front Door reports.
Resource states
The following table explains the various stages of the migration process and if changes can be made to the profile.
Resource mapping after migration
When you migrate your Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) to Azure Front Door Standard or Premium, you notice some configurations changed, or relocated to provide a better experience to help manage your Azure Front Door profile. In this section, you learn how Azure CDN resources are mapped inAzure Front Door. The Azure Front Door resource ID doesn’t change after migration.
endpointName
contoso-1.azureedge.net
contoso.azureedge.net
www.contoso.com
www.contoso.com
contoso.azureedge.net
www.contoso.com
contoso-<hashvalue>.z01.azurefd.net
z01
contoso.azureedge.net
www.contoso.com
Next steps
Learn how tomigrate from Azure CDN from Microsoft (classic) to Azure Front Doorusing the Azure portal.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources