Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Install and configure Visual Studio Code for Go development
Article
2024-06-13
5 contributors
In this article
In this quickstart, you will install the Go compiler and tools, install Visual Studio Code to write Go code, and install the Go for Visual Studio Code extension which provides support while writing Go. Once configured, you'll create an application, run it, and use the debugging tool to pause execution and observe the value of variables.
1. Install Go
Install Go from the official page. This installs the compiler, the Standard Library, and many tools to perform various common tasks during Go development. To install Go, follow these steps:
In a web browser, go togo.dev/doc/install.
Download the version for your operating system.
Once downloaded, run the installer.
Open a command prompt, then rungo versionto confirm Go was installed.
go version
2. Install Visual Studio Code
Next, install Visual Studio Code, which provides basic code editing functionality. Follow these steps to install Visual Studio Code:
Open a web browser and go tocode.visualstudio.com.
Download the version for your operating system. Visual Studio Code supports Windows, Linux, and macOS.
Once downloaded, run the installer.
3. Install the Go extension
Install and configure theGo for Visual Studio Codeextension. Visual Studio Code and the Go extension provide IntelliSense, code navigation, and advanced debugging.
4. Update the Go tools
Go: Install/Update tools
5. Write a sample Go program
In this step, you write and run a sample Go program to make sure everything is working correctly.
sample-app
main.go
go mod init sample-app
main.go
Sample code:
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    name := "Go Developers"
    fmt.Println("Azure for", name)
}
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    name := "Go Developers"
    fmt.Println("Azure for", name)
}
6. Run the debugger
Finally, create a break point and use the debugger tool to step through code line by line and view the values stored in variables while the application is paused.
name
Next steps
Go in Visual Studio Code
Key Azure Services for Go Developers
Authenticate with the Azure SDK for Go
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources