Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
File integrity monitoring
Article
2025-02-19
7 contributors
In this article
The file integrity monitoring feature inDefender for Servers Plan 2in Microsoft Defender for Cloud helps to keep enterprise assets and resources secure by scanning and analyzing operating system files, Windows registries, application software, and Linux system files for changes that might indicate an attack. File integrity monitoring helps you to:
Meet compliance requirements. File integrity monitoring is often required by regulatory compliance standards such as PCI-DSS and ISO 17799.
Improve posture and identify potential security issues by detecting suspicious changes to files.
Monitor suspicious activity
File integrity monitoring examines operating system files, Windows registries, application software, and Linux system files to detect suspicious activity such as:
File and registry key creation or deletion.
File modifications, such as changes in file size, access control lists, and hash of the content.
Registry modifications such as changes in size, access control lists, type, and content.
Data collection
File integrity monitoring uses the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint agent to collect data from machines.
The Defender for Endpoint agent collects data from machines in accordance with the files and resources defined for file integrity monitoring.
Data collected by the Defender for Endpoint agent is stored for access and analysis in a Log Analytics workspace.
Collected file integrity monitoring data is part of the500 MB benefit included in Defender for Servers Plan 2.
File integrity monitoring provides information about file and resource changes, including the source of the change, account details, indication of who made the changes, and information about the initiating process.
Migrate to the new version
File integrity monitoring previously used the Log Analytics agent (also known as the Microsoft Monitoring agent (MMA)) or the Azure Monitor agent (AMA) to collect data. If you're using file integrity monitoring with one of these legacy methods, you canmigrate file integrity monitoringto use Defender for Endpoint.
Configure file integrity monitoring
After enabling Defender for Servers Plan 2, you enable and configure file integrity monitoring. It isn't enabled by default.
You select a Log Analytics workspace in which to store change events for monitored files/resources. You can use an existing workspace, or define a new one.
Defender for Cloud recommends resources to monitor with file integrity monitoring.
Choose what to monitor
Defender for Cloud recommends entities to monitor with file integrity monitoring. You can choose items from the recommendations. When choosing which files to monitor:
Consider the files that are critical for your system and applications.
Monitor files that you don’t expect to change without planning.
If you choose files that are frequently changed by applications or operating system (such as log files and text files) it will create noise, making it difficult to identify an attack.
Recommended items to monitor
When using file integrity monitoring with the Defender for Endpoint agent, we recommend monitoring these items with based on known attack patterns.
Next steps
Enable file integrity monitoring with Defender for Endpoint
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources