Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Storage Analytics
Article
2024-01-12
11 contributors
In this article
Azure Storage Analytics performs logging for a storage account. You can use this data to trace requests, analyze usage trends, and diagnose issues with your storage account.
Note
Storage Analytics supports only logs. Storage Analytics metrics are retired. SeeTransition to metrics in Azure Monitor. While Storage Analytics logs are still supported, we recommend that you use Azure Storage logs in Azure Monitor instead of Storage Analytics logs. To learn more, see any of the following articles:
Monitoring Azure Blob Storage
Monitoring Azure Files
Monitoring Azure Queue Storage
Monitoring Azure Table storage
To use Storage Analytics, you must enable it individually for each service you want to monitor. You can enable it from theAzure portal. For details, seeMonitor a storage account in the Azure portal. You can also enable Storage Analytics programmatically via the REST API or the client library. Use theSet Blob Service Properties,Set Queue Service Properties,Set Table Service Properties, andSet File Service Propertiesoperations to enable Storage Analytics for each service.
The aggregated log data is stored in a well-known blob, which may be accessed using the Blob service and Table service APIs.
Storage Analytics has a 20 TB limit on the amount of stored data that is independent of the total limit for your storage account. For more information about storage account limits, seeScalability and performance targets for standard storage accounts.
For an in-depth guide on using Storage Analytics and other tools to identify, diagnose, and troubleshoot Azure Storage-related issues, seeMonitor, diagnose, and troubleshoot Microsoft Azure Storage.
Billing for Storage Analytics
The amount of storage used by logs data is billable. You're also billed for requests to create blobs for logging.
If you have configured a data retention policy, you can reduce the spending by deleting old log data. For more information about retention policies, seeSetting a Storage Analytics Data Retention Policy.
Understanding billable requests
Every request made to an account's storage service is either billable or non-billable. Storage Analytics logs each individual request made to a service, including a status message that indicates how the request was handled. SeeUnderstanding Azure Storage Billing - Bandwidth, Transactions, and Capacity.
When looking at Storage Analytics data, you can use the tables in theStorage Analytics Logged Operations and Status Messagestopic to determine what requests are billable. Then you can compare your log data to the status messages to see if you were charged for a particular request. You can also use the tables in the previous topic to investigate availability for a storage service or individual API operation.
Next steps
Monitor a storage account in the Azure portal
Storage Analytics Logging
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources