Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Content Credentials
Article
2025-04-24
5 contributors
In this article
With the improved quality of content from generative AI models, there is an increased need for more transparency about the origin of AI-generated content. All AI-generated images from Azure OpenAI Service include Content Credentials, a tamper-evident way to disclose the origin and history of content. Content Credentials are based on an open technical specification from theCoalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA), a Joint Development Foundation project.
What are Content Credentials?
Content Credentials in the Azure OpenAI Service provide customers with information about the origin of an image generated by the image generation models. This information is represented by a manifest attached to the image. The manifest is cryptographically signed by a certificate that traces back to Azure OpenAI Service.
The manifest contains several key pieces of information:
"description"
"AI Generated Image"
"softwareAgent"
"Azure OpenAI DALL-E"
"Azure OpenAI ImageGen"
"when"
Content Credentials in the Azure OpenAI Service can help people understand when visual content is AI-generated. For more information on how to responsibly build solutions with Azure OpenAI Service image-generation models, visit theAzure OpenAI transparency note.
How do I use Content Credentials in my solution today?
Customers may use Content Credentials by:
Ensuring that their AI-generated images contain Content Credentials
No additional set-up is necessary. Content Credentials are automatically applied to all generated images from DALL·E and GPT-image-1 in the Azure OpenAI Service.
Ensuring that their AI-generated images contain Content Credentials
No additional set-up is necessary. Content Credentials are automatically applied to all generated images from DALL·E and GPT-image-1 in the Azure OpenAI Service.
Verifying that an image has Content Credentials
There are two recommended ways today to check the credential of an image generated by Azure OpenAI models:Content Credentials Verify webpage (contentcredentials.org/verify): This is a tool that allows users to inspect the Content Credentials of a piece of content. If an image was generated by an Azure OpenAI image generation model, the tool will display that its Content Credentials were issued by Microsoft Corporation alongside the date and time of issuance.This page shows that an image generated by Azure OpenAI DALL-E has Content Credentials issued by Microsoft.Content Authenticity Initiative (CAI) open-source tools: The CAI provides multiple open-source tools that validate and display C2PA Content Credentials. Find the tool right for your application andget started here.
Verifying that an image has Content Credentials
There are two recommended ways today to check the credential of an image generated by Azure OpenAI models:
Content Credentials Verify webpage (contentcredentials.org/verify): This is a tool that allows users to inspect the Content Credentials of a piece of content. If an image was generated by an Azure OpenAI image generation model, the tool will display that its Content Credentials were issued by Microsoft Corporation alongside the date and time of issuance.This page shows that an image generated by Azure OpenAI DALL-E has Content Credentials issued by Microsoft.
Content Credentials Verify webpage (contentcredentials.org/verify): This is a tool that allows users to inspect the Content Credentials of a piece of content. If an image was generated by an Azure OpenAI image generation model, the tool will display that its Content Credentials were issued by Microsoft Corporation alongside the date and time of issuance.
This page shows that an image generated by Azure OpenAI DALL-E has Content Credentials issued by Microsoft.
Content Authenticity Initiative (CAI) open-source tools: The CAI provides multiple open-source tools that validate and display C2PA Content Credentials. Find the tool right for your application andget started here.
Content Authenticity Initiative (CAI) open-source tools: The CAI provides multiple open-source tools that validate and display C2PA Content Credentials. Find the tool right for your application andget started here.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources