Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Understand the terms in your Azure usage and charges file
Article
2024-09-19
6 contributors
In this article
The detailed usage and charges file contains daily rated usage based on negotiated rates,
purchases (for example, reservations, Marketplace fees), and refunds for the specified period.
Fees don't include credits, taxes, or other charges or discounts. You manually download the usage and charges file.
Charges for account types
The information in the usage and charges file is the same information that'sexported from Cost Management. And, it's the same information that gets retrieved from the Cost Details API. For more information about choosing a method to get cost details, seeChoose a cost details solution.
The following table covers which charges are included for each account type.
To learn more about Marketplace orders (also known as external services), seeUnderstand your Azure external service charges.
For download instructions, seeHow to get your Azure billing invoice and daily usage data.
You can open your usage and charges CSV file in Microsoft Excel or another spreadsheet application.
List of terms and descriptions
If you want to see a list of all available terms in the usage and charges file, seeUnderstand cost details data fields.
Ensure charges are correct
To learn more about detailed usage and charges, read about how to understand yourpay-as-you-goorMicrosoft Customer Agreementinvoice.
Unexpected usage or charges
If you have usage or charges that you don't recognize, there are several things you can do to help understand why:
Review the invoice that has charges for the resource
Review your invoiced charges in Cost analysis
Find people responsible for the resource and engage with them
Analyze the audit logs
Analyze user permissions to the resource's parent scope
To help identify the charges Create anAzure support request
For more information, seeAnalyze unexpected charges.
Azure doesn't log most user actions. Instead, Microsoft logs resource usage for billing. If you notice a usage spike in the past and you didn't have logging enabled, Microsoft can't pinpoint the cause. Enable logging for the service that you want to view the increased usage for so that the appropriate technical team can assist you with the issue.
Need help? Contact us.
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Related content
View and download your Microsoft Azure invoice
View and download your Microsoft Azure usage and charges
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources