Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of business continuity with Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server
Article
2024-08-14
16 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server
Business continuityin Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server refers to the mechanisms, policies, and procedures that enable your business to continue operating in the face of disruption, particularly to its computing infrastructure. In most of the cases, Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server handles disruptive events that might happen in the cloud environment and keep your applications and business processes running. However, there are some events that can't be handled automatically such as:
User accidentally deletes or updates a row in a table.
Earthquake causes a power outage and temporarily disables an availability zone or a region.
Database patching required to fix a bug or security issue.
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server provides features that protect data and mitigates downtime for your mission-critical databases during planned and unplanned downtime events. Built on top of the Azure infrastructure that offers robust resiliency and availability, Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server has business continuity features that provide another fault protection, address recovery time requirements, and reduce data loss exposure. As you architect your applications, you should consider the downtime tolerance - the recovery time objective (RTO), and data loss exposure - the recovery point objective (RPO). For example, your business-critical database requires stricter uptime than a test database.
The table below illustrates the features that Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server offers.
The following table compares RTO and RPO in atypical workloadscenario:
* RTO and RPOcan be much higherin some cases depending on various factors including latency between sites, the amount of data to be transmitted, and importantly primary database write workload.
Planned downtime events
Below are some planned maintenance scenarios. These events typically incur up to few minutes of downtime, and without data loss.
When the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance is configured withhigh availability, the service performs the scaling and the maintenance operations on the standby server first. For more information, see [Concepts - High availability]/azure/reliability/reliability-postgresql-flexible-server.
Unplanned downtime mitigation
Unplanned downtimes can occur as a result of unforeseen disruptions such as underlying hardware fault, networking issues, and software bugs. If the database server configured with high availability goes down unexpectedly, then the standby replica is activated and the clients can resume their operations. If not configured with high availability (HA), then if the restart attempt fails, a new database server is automatically provisioned. While an unplanned downtime can't be avoided, Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server helps mitigate the downtime by automatically performing recovery operations without requiring human intervention.
Though we continuously strive to provide high availability, there are times when Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server does incur outage causing unavailability of the databases and thus impacting your application. When our service monitoring detects issues that cause widespread connectivity errors, failures or performance issues, the service automatically declares an outage to keep you informed.
Service Outage
In the event of Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server outage, you can see more details related to the outage in the following places:
Azure portal banner: If your subscription is identified to be impacted, there will be an outage alert of a Service Issue in your Azure portalNotifications.

Help + supportorSupport + troubleshooting: When you create support ticket fromHelp + supportorSupport + troubleshooting, there will be information about any issues impacting your resources. Select View outage details for more information and a summary of impact. There will also be an alert in the New support request page.

Service Help: TheService Healthpage in the Azure portal contains information about Azure data center status globally. Search for "service health" in the search bar in the Azure portal, then view Service issues in the Active events category. You can also view the health of individual resources in theResource healthpage of any resource under the Help menu. A sample screenshot of the Service Health page follows, with information about an active service issue in Southeast Asia.

Email notification: If you've set up alerts, an email notification will arrive when a service outage impacts your subscription and resource. The emails arrive from "azure-noreply@microsoft.com". The body of the email begins with "The activity log alert ... was triggered by a service issue for the Azure subscription...". For more information on service health alerts, seeReceive activity log alerts on Azure service notifications using Azure portal.
Important
As the name implies, temporary tablespaces in PostgreSQL are used for temporary objects, as well as other internal database operations, such as sorting. Therefore we do not recommend creating user schema objects in temporary tablespace, as we don't guarantee durability of such objects after Server restarts, HA failovers, etc.
Unplanned downtime: failure scenarios and service recovery
Below are some unplanned failure scenarios and the recovery process.
Configure your database after recovery from regional failure
If you are using geo-restore or geo-replica to recover from an outage, you must make sure that the connectivity to the new server is properly configured so that the normal application function can be resumed. You can follow thePost-restore tasks.
If you've previously set up a diagnostic setting on the original server, make sure to do the same on the target server if necessary as explained inConfigure and Access Logs in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Setup telemetry alerts, you need to make sure your existing alert rule settings are updated to map to the new server. For more information about alert rules, seeUse the Azure portal to set up alerts on metrics for Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Important
Deleted servers can be restored. If you delete the server, you can follow our guidanceRestore a dropped Azure database - Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible serverto recover. Use Azure resource lock to help prevent accidental deletion of your server.
Related content
High availability in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Restore to latest restore point.
Restore to custom restore point.
Restore to full backup (fast restore).
Restore to paired region (geo-restore).
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources