Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Enable virtual hardware and VM CRUD capabilities in an SCVMM machine with Arc agent installed
Article
2025-04-23
5 contributors
In this article
This article describes how to enable virtual hardware management and VM CRUD operational ability on an SCVMM VM that has Arc agents installed via the Arc-enabled Servers route.
Important
This article is applicable only if you've installed Arc agents directly in SCVMM machines before onboarding to Azure Arc-enabled SCVMM by deploying Arc resource bridge.
Prerequisites
Before you enable virtual hardware and VM CRUD capabilities, ensure you meet these prerequisites:
An Azure subscription and resource group where you haveArc ScVmm VM Administratorrole.
Your SCVMM management server instance must beonboardedto Azure Arc.
Enable virtual hardware management and self-service access to SCVMM VMs with Arc agent installed
To enable the virtual hardware management and self-service access, follow these steps:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Navigate to the Virtual machines inventory page of your SCVMM management servers. The virtual machines that have Arc agent installed via the Arc-enabled Servers route will haveLink to SCVMMstatus under virtual hardware management.
Navigate to the Virtual machines inventory page of your SCVMM management servers. The virtual machines that have Arc agent installed via the Arc-enabled Servers route will haveLink to SCVMMstatus under virtual hardware management.

SelectLink to SCVMMto view the pane with the list of all the machines under SCVMM management server with Arc agent installed but not linked to the SCVMM management server in Azure Arc.
SelectLink to SCVMMto view the pane with the list of all the machines under SCVMM management server with Arc agent installed but not linked to the SCVMM management server in Azure Arc.

Choose all the machines that need to be enabled in Azure, and selectLinkto link the machines to SCVMM management server.
Choose all the machines that need to be enabled in Azure, and selectLinkto link the machines to SCVMM management server.
After you Link to SCVMM, the virtual hardware status will reflect asEnabledfor all the VMs, and you can perform virtual hardware operations.
After you Link to SCVMM, the virtual hardware status will reflect asEnabledfor all the VMs, and you can perform virtual hardware operations.
Next step
Set up and manage self-service access to SCVMM resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources