Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
The new App registrations experience for Azure Active Directory B2C
Article
2024-01-11
9 contributors
In this article
The newApp registrationsexperience for Azure Active Directory B2C (Azure AD B2C) is now generally available. If you're more familiar with theApplicationsexperience for registering applications for Azure AD B2C, referred to here as the "legacy experience," this guide will get you started using the new experience.
Overview
Previously, you had to manage your Azure AD B2C consumer-facing applications separately from the rest of your apps using the legacy experience. That meant different app creation experiences across different places in Azure.
The new experience shows all Azure AD B2C app registrations and Microsoft Entra app registrations in one place and provides a consistent way to manage them. From creating a customer-facing app to managing an app with Microsoft Graph permissions for resource management, you only need to learn one way to do things.
You can reach the new experience by navigating toApp registrationsin an Azure AD B2C tenant from both theAzure AD B2Cor theMicrosoft Entra IDservices in the Azure portal.
The Azure AD B2C App registrations experience is based on the generalApp Registration experiencefor any Microsoft Entra tenant, but is tailored for Azure AD B2C tenants.
What's not changing?
Your applications and related configurations can be found as-is in the new experience. You do not need to register the applications again and users of your applications will not need to sign-in again.
Note
To view all your previously created applications, navigate to theApp registrationsblade and select theAll applicationstab. This will display apps created in the legacy experience, the new experience, and those created in the Microsoft Entra service.
Key new features
Aunified app listshows all your applications that authenticate with Azure AD B2C and Microsoft Entra ID in one convenient place. In addition, you can take advantage of features already available for Microsoft Entra applications, including theCreated ondate,Certificates & secretsstatus, search bar, and much more.
Aunified app listshows all your applications that authenticate with Azure AD B2C and Microsoft Entra ID in one convenient place. In addition, you can take advantage of features already available for Microsoft Entra applications, including theCreated ondate,Certificates & secretsstatus, search bar, and much more.
Combined app registrationallows you to quickly register an app, whether it's a customer-facing app or an app to access Microsoft Graph.
Combined app registrationallows you to quickly register an app, whether it's a customer-facing app or an app to access Microsoft Graph.
TheEndpointspane lets you quickly identify the relevant endpoints for your scenario, including OpenID connect configuration, SAML metadata, Microsoft Graph API, andOAuth 2.0 user flow endpoints.
TheEndpointspane lets you quickly identify the relevant endpoints for your scenario, including OpenID connect configuration, SAML metadata, Microsoft Graph API, andOAuth 2.0 user flow endpoints.
API permissionsandExpose an APIprovide more extensive scope, permission, and consent management. You can now also assign MS Graph permissions to an app.
API permissionsandExpose an APIprovide more extensive scope, permission, and consent management. You can now also assign MS Graph permissions to an app.
OwnersandManifestare now available for apps that authenticate with Azure AD B2C. You can add owners for your registrations and directly edit application propertiesusing the manifest editor.
OwnersandManifestare now available for apps that authenticate with Azure AD B2C. You can add owners for your registrations and directly edit application propertiesusing the manifest editor.
New supported account types
In the new experience, you select a support account type from the following options:
Accounts in this organizational directory only
Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra directory – Multitenant)
Accounts in any identity provider or organizational directory (for authenticating users with user flows)
To understand the different account types, selectHelp me choosein the creation experience.
In the legacy experience, apps were always created as customer-facing applications. For those apps, the account type is set toAccounts in any identity provider or organizational directory (for authenticating users with user flows).
Note
This option is required to be able to run Azure AD B2C user flows to authenticate users for this application. Learnhow to register an application for use with user flows.
You can also use this option  to use Azure AD B2C as a SAML service provider.Learn more.
Applications for DevOps scenarios
You can use the other account types to create an app to manage your DevOps scenarios, like using Microsoft Graph to upload Identity Experience Framework policies or provision users. Learnhow to register a Microsoft Graph application to manage Azure AD B2C resources.
You might not see all Microsoft Graph permissions, because many of these permissions don't apply to Azure B2C consumer users.Read more about managing users using Microsoft Graph.
Admin consent and offline_access+openid scopes
Theopenidscope is necessary so that Azure AD B2C can sign users in to an app. Theoffline_accessscope is needed to issue refresh tokens for a user. These scopes were previously added and given admin consent by default. Now, you can easily add permissions for these scopes during the creation process by ensuring theGrant admin consent to openid and offline_access permissionsoption is selected. Else, the Microsoft Graph permissions can be added with admin consent in theAPI permissionssettings for an existing app.
Learn more aboutpermissions and consent.
Platforms/Authentication: Reply URLs/redirect URIs
In the legacy experience, the various platform types were managed underPropertiesas reply URLs for web apps/APIs and Redirect URI for Native clients. "Native clients" are also known as "Public clients" and include apps for iOS, macOS, Android, and other mobile and desktop application types.
In the new experience, reply URLs and redirect URIs are both referred to as Redirect URIs and can be found in an app'sAuthenticationsection. App registrations aren't limited to being either a web app or a native application. You can use the same app registration for all of these platform types by registering the respective redirect URIs.
Redirect URIs are required to be associated with an app type, either web or Public (mobile and desktop).Learn more about redirect URIs
TheiOS/macOSandAndroidplatforms are a type of public client. They provide an easy way to configure iOS/macOS or Android apps with corresponding Redirect URIs for use with MSAL. Learn more aboutApplication configuration options.
Application certificates & secrets
In the new experience, instead ofKeys, you use theCertificates & secretsblade to manage certificates and secrets. Certificates & secrets enable applications to identify themselves to the authentication service when receiving tokens at a web addressable location (using an HTTPS scheme). We recommend using a certificate instead of a client secret for client credential scenarios when authenticating against Microsoft Entra ID. Certificates can't be used to authenticate against Azure AD B2C.
Features not applicable in Azure AD B2C tenants
The following Microsoft Entra app registrations capabilities are not applicable to or available in Azure AD B2C tenants:
Roles and administrators- Not currently available for Azure AD B2C.
Branding- UI/UX customization is configured in theCompany brandingexperience or as part of a user flow. Learn tocustomize the user interface in Azure Active Directory B2C.
Publisher domain verification- Your app is registered on.onmicrosoft.com, which isn't a verified domain. Additionally, the publisher domain is primarily used for granting user consent, which doesn't apply to Azure AD B2C apps for user authentication.Learn more about publisher domain.
Token configuration- The token is configured as part of a user flow rather than an app.
TheQuickstartsexperience is currently not available for Azure AD B2C tenants.
Limitations
The new experience has the following limitations:
At this time, Azure AD B2C doesn't differentiate between being able to issue access or ID tokens for implicit flows; both types of tokens are available for implicit grant flow if theID tokensoption is selected in theAuthenticationblade.
Changing the value for supported accounts isn't supported in the UI. You'll need to use the app manifest, unless you're switching between Microsoft Entra single-tenant and multi-tenant.
Next steps
To get started with the new app registration experience:
Learnhow to register a web application.
Learnhow to register a web API.
Learnhow to register a native client application.
Learnhow to register a Microsoft Graph application to manage Azure AD B2C resources.
Learnhow to use Azure AD B2C as a SAML Service Provider.
Learn aboutapplication types.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources