Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Compare Azure Government and global Azure
Article
2024-09-03
60 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Azure Government uses same underlying technologies as global Azure, which includes the core components ofInfrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS),Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), andSoftware-as-a-Service (SaaS). Both Azure and Azure Government have the same comprehensive security controls in place and the same Microsoft commitment on the safeguarding of customer data. Whereas both cloud environments are assessed and authorized at the FedRAMP High impact level, Azure Government provides an extra layer of protection to customers through contractual commitments regarding storage of customer data in the United States and limiting potential access to systems processing customer data toscreened US persons. These commitments may be of interest to customers using the cloud to store or process data subject to US export control regulations.
Note
These lists and tables do not include feature or bundle availability in the Azure Government Secret or Azure Government Top Secret clouds.
For more information about specific availability for air-gapped clouds, please contact your account team.
Export control implications
You're responsible for designing and deploying your applications to meetUS export control requirementssuch as the requirements prescribed in the EAR, ITAR, and DoE 10 CFR Part 810. In doing so, you shouldn't include sensitive or restricted information in Azure resource names, as explained inConsiderations for naming Azure resources.
Guidance for developers
Most of the currently available technical content assumes that applications are being developed on global Azure rather than on Azure Government. For this reason, it’s important to be aware of two key differences in applications that you develop for hosting in Azure Government.
Certain services and features that are in specific regions of global Azure might not be available in Azure Government.
Certain services and features that are in specific regions of global Azure might not be available in Azure Government.
Feature configurations in Azure Government might differ from those in global Azure.
Feature configurations in Azure Government might differ from those in global Azure.
Therefore, it's important to review your sample code and configurations to ensure that you are building within the Azure Government cloud services environment.
For more information, seeAzure Government developer guide.
Note
This article has been updated to use the new Azure PowerShell Az module. You can still use the AzureRM module, which will continue to receive bug fixes until at least December 2020. To learn more about the new Az module and AzureRM compatibility, seeIntroducing the new Azure PowerShell Az module. For Az module installation instructions, seeInstall the Azure Az PowerShell module.
You can use AzureCLI or PowerShell to obtain Azure Government endpoints for services you provisioned:
UseAzure CLIto run theaz cloud showcommand and provideAzureUSGovernmentas the name of the target cloud environment. For example,az cloud show --name AzureUSGovernmentshould get you different endpoints for Azure Government.
UseAzure CLIto run theaz cloud showcommand and provideAzureUSGovernmentas the name of the target cloud environment. For example,
AzureUSGovernment
az cloud show --name AzureUSGovernment
az cloud show --name AzureUSGovernment
should get you different endpoints for Azure Government.
Use aPowerShellcmdlet such asGet-AzEnvironmentto get endpoints and metadata for an instance of Azure service. For example,Get-AzEnvironment -Name AzureUSGovernmentshould get you properties for Azure Government. This cmdlet gets environments from your subscription data file.
Use aPowerShellcmdlet such asGet-AzEnvironmentto get endpoints and metadata for an instance of Azure service. For example,
Get-AzEnvironment -Name AzureUSGovernment
Get-AzEnvironment -Name AzureUSGovernment
should get you properties for Azure Government. This cmdlet gets environments from your subscription data file.
Table below lists API endpoints in Azure vs. Azure Government for accessing and managing some of the more common services. If you provisioned a service that isn't listed in the table below, see the Azure CLI and PowerShell examples above for suggestions on how to obtain the corresponding Azure Government endpoint.
https://usgovvirginia.s2s.speech.azure.us
https://usgovarizona.s2s.speech.azure.us
Service availability
Microsoft's goal for Azure Government is to match service availability in Azure. For service availability in Azure Government, seeProducts available by region. Services available in Azure Government are listed by category and whether they're Generally Available or available through Preview. If a service is available in Azure Government, that fact isn't reiterated in the rest of this article. Instead, you're encouraged to reviewProducts available by regionfor the latest, up-to-date information on service availability.
In general, service availability in Azure Government implies that all corresponding service features are available to you. Variations to this approach and other applicable limitations are tracked and explained in this article based on the main service categories outlined in theonline directory of Azure services. Other considerations for service deployment and usage in Azure Government are also provided.
AI + machine learning
This section outlines variations and considerations when usingAzure Bot Service,Azure Machine Learning, andCognitive Servicesin the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Azure Bot Service
The following Azure Bot Servicefeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Bot Framework Composer integration
Channels (due to availability of dependent services)Direct Line Speech ChannelTelephony Channel (Preview)Microsoft Search Channel (Preview)Kik Channel (deprecated)
Direct Line Speech Channel
Telephony Channel (Preview)
Microsoft Search Channel (Preview)
Kik Channel (deprecated)
For information on how to deploy Bot Framework and Azure Bot Service bots to Azure Government, seeConfigure Bot Framework bots for US Government customers.
Azure Machine Learning
For feature variations and limitations, seeAzure Machine Learning feature availability across cloud regions.

Azure AI services: Content Moderator
The following Content Moderatorfeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Review UI and Review APIs.

Azure AI Language Understanding (LUIS)
The following Language Understandingfeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Speech Requests
Prebuilt Domains
Azure AI Language Understanding (LUIS) is part ofAzure AI Language.

Azure AI Speech
For feature variations and limitations, including API endpoints, seeSpeech service in sovereign clouds.

Azure AI services: OpenAI Service
For feature variations and limitations seeAzure OpenAI in Azure Gov.
Azure AI services: Translator
For feature variations and limitations, including API endpoints, seeTranslator in sovereign clouds.
Analytics
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Analytics services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Azure HDInsight
For secured virtual networks, you'll want to allow network security groups (NSGs) access to certain IP addresses and ports. For Azure Government, you should allow the following IP addresses (all with an Allowed port of 443):
For a demo on how to build data-centric solutions on Azure Government using HDInsight, see Azure AI services, HDInsight, and Power BI on Azure Government.
Power BI
For usage guidance, feature variations, and limitations, seePower BI for US government customers. For a demo on how to build data-centric solutions on Azure Government using Power BI, see Azure AI services, HDInsight, and Power BI on Azure Government.
Power BI Embedded
To learn how to embed analytical content within your business process application, seeTutorial: Embed a Power BI content into your application for national clouds.
Databases
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Databases services in the Azure Government environment.  For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Azure Database for MySQL
The following Azure Database for MySQLfeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Advanced Threat Protection
Azure Database for PostgreSQL
For Flexible Server availability in Azure Government regions, seeAzure Database for PostgreSQL – Flexible Server.
The following Azure Database for PostgreSQLfeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL, formerly Azure Database for PostgreSQL – Hyperscale (Citus). For more information about supported regions, seeRegional availability for Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL.
The following features of the Single Server deployment optionAdvanced Threat ProtectionBackup with long-term retention
Advanced Threat Protection
Backup with long-term retention
Developer tools
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Developer tools in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Enterprise Dev/Test subscription offer
Enterprise Dev/Test subscription offer in existing or separate tenant is currently available only in Azure public as documented inAzure EA portal administration.
Identity
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Identity services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.

Microsoft Entra ID P1 and P2
For feature variations and limitations, seeCloud feature availability.
For information on how to use Power BI capabilities for collaboration between Azure and Azure Government, seeCross-cloud B2B.
The following features have known limitations in Azure Government:
Limitations with B2B Collaboration in supported Azure US Government tenants:For more information about B2B collaboration limitations in Azure Government and to find out if B2B collaboration is available in your Azure Government tenant, seeMicrosoft Entra B2B in government and national clouds.
Limitations with B2B Collaboration in supported Azure US Government tenants:
For more information about B2B collaboration limitations in Azure Government and to find out if B2B collaboration is available in your Azure Government tenant, seeMicrosoft Entra B2B in government and national clouds.
Limitations with multifactor authentication:Trusted IPs isn't supported in Azure Government. Instead, use Conditional Access policies with named locations to establish when multifactor authentication should and shouldn't be required based off the user's current IP address.
Limitations with multifactor authentication:
Trusted IPs isn't supported in Azure Government. Instead, use Conditional Access policies with named locations to establish when multifactor authentication should and shouldn't be required based off the user's current IP address.
Azure Active Directory B2C
Azure Active Directory B2C isnot availablein Azure Government.
Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)
The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) enables developers to acquire security tokens from the Microsoft identity platform to authenticate users and access secured web APIs. For feature variations and limitations, seeNational clouds and MSAL.
Management and governance
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Management and Governance services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Automation
The following Automationfeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Automation analytics solution
Azure Advisor
For feature variations and limitations, seeAzure Advisor in sovereign clouds.
Azure Lighthouse
The following Azure Lighthousefeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Managed Service offers published to Azure Marketplace
Delegation of subscriptions across a national cloud and the Azure public cloud, or across two separate national clouds, isn't supported
Privileged Identity Management (PIM) feature isn't enabled, for example, just-in-time (JIT) / eligible authorization capability
Azure Managed Grafana
The following document contains information about Azure Managed Grafana feature availability in Azure Government:Azure Managed Grafana: Feature availability in sovereign clouds.
Azure Monitor
Azure Monitor enables the same features in both Azure and Azure Government.
System Center Operations Manager 2019 is supported equally well in both Azure and Azure Government.
The following options are available for previous versions of System Center Operations Manager:
Integrating System Center Operations Manager 2016 with Azure Government requires an updated Advisor management pack that is included with Update Rollup 2 or later.
System Center Operations Manager 2012 R2 requires an updated Advisor management pack included with Update Rollup 3 or later.
For more information, seeConnect Operations Manager to Azure Monitor.
Frequently asked questions
Can I migrate data from Azure Monitor logs in Azure to Azure Government?No. It isn't possible to move data or your workspace from Azure to Azure Government.
No. It isn't possible to move data or your workspace from Azure to Azure Government.
Can I switch between Azure and Azure Government workspaces from the Operations Management Suite portal?No. The portals for Azure and Azure Government are separate and don't share information.
No. The portals for Azure and Azure Government are separate and don't share information.
Application Insights (part of Azure Monitor) enables the same features in both Azure and Azure Government. This section describes the supplemental configuration that is required to use Application Insights in Azure Government.
Visual Studio– In Azure Government, you can enable monitoring on your ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, Java, and Node.js based applications running on Azure App Service. For more information, seeApplication monitoring for Azure App Service overview. In Visual Studio, go to Tools|Options|Accounts|Registered Azure Clouds|Add New Azure Cloud and select Azure US Government as the Discovery endpoint. After that, adding an account in File|Account Settings will prompt you for which cloud you want to add from.
SDK endpoint modifications– In order to send data from Application Insights to an Azure Government region, you'll need to modify the default endpoint addresses that are used by the Application Insights SDKs. Each SDK requires slightly different modifications, as described inApplication Insights overriding default endpoints.
Firewall exceptions– Application Insights uses several IP addresses. You might need to know these addresses if the app that you're monitoring is hosted behind a firewall. For more information, seeIP addresses used by Azure Monitorfrom where you can download Azure Government IP addresses.
Note
Although these addresses are static, it's possible that we'll need to change them from time to time. All Application Insights traffic represents outbound traffic except for availability monitoring and webhooks, which require inbound firewall rules.
To allow the Application Insights SDK/agent to send data to the Application Insights resource, you need to allow access to the regional endpoint defined in your connection string and open theoutgoing port 443in your firewall. To learn more about the endpoint suffix, seeConnection strings in Application Insights.
Cost Management and Billing
The following Microsoft Cost Management + Billingfeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Cost Management + Billing for cloud solution providers (CSPs)
Media
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Media services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Media Services
For Azure Media Services v3 feature variations in Azure Government, seeAzure Media Services v3 clouds and regions availability.
Migration
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Migration services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Azure Migrate
The following Azure Migratefeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Containerizing Java Web Apps on Apache Tomcat (on Linux servers) and deploying them on Linux containers on App Service.
Containerizing Java Web Apps on Apache Tomcat (on Linux servers) and deploying them on Linux containers on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
Containerizing ASP.NET apps and deploying them on Windows containers on AKS.
Containerizing ASP.NET apps and deploying them on Windows containers on App Service.
You can only create assessments for Azure Government as target regions and using Azure Government offers.
For more information, seeAzure Migrate support matrix. For a list of Azure Government URLs needed by the Azure Migrate appliance when connecting to the internet, seeAzure Migrate appliance URL access.
Networking
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Networking services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Azure ExpressRoute
For an overview of ExpressRoute, seeWhat is Azure ExpressRoute?. For an overview of howBGP communitiesare used with ExpressRoute in Azure Government, seeBGP community support in National Clouds.
Azure Front Door
Azure Front Door (AFD) Standard and Premium tiers are available in general availability in Azure Government regions US Gov Arizona and US Gov Texas.
Private Link
For Private Link services availability, seeAzure Private Link availability.
For Private DNS zone names, seeAzure Private Endpoint DNS configuration.
Traffic Manager
Traffic Manager health checks can originate from certain IP addresses for Azure Government. Review theIP addresses in the JSON fileto ensure that incoming connections from these IP addresses are allowed at the endpoints to check its health status.
Security
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Security services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
For feature variations and limitations, seeMicrosoft Defender for Endpoint for US Government customers.
Microsoft Defender for IoT
For feature variations and limitations, seeCloud feature availability for US Government customers.
Azure Information Protection
Azure Information Protection Premium is part of theEnterprise Mobility + Securitysuite. For details on this service and how to use it, seeAzure Information Protection Premium Government Service Description.
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
For feature variations and limitations, seeCloud feature availability for US Government customers.
Microsoft Sentinel
For feature variations and limitations, seeCloud feature availability for US Government customers.
Storage
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Storage services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Azure NetApp Files
For Azure NetApp Files feature availability in Azure Government and how to access the Azure NetApp Files service within Azure Government, seeAzure NetApp Files for Azure Government.
Azure Import/Export
With Import/Export jobs for US Gov Arizona or US Gov Texas, the mailing address is for US Gov Virginia. The data is loaded into selected storage accounts from the US Gov Virginia region. For all jobs, we recommend that you rotate your storage account keys after the job is complete to remove any access granted during the process. For more information, seeManage storage account access keys.
Web
This section outlines variations and considerations when using Web services in the Azure Government environment. For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
API Management
The following API Managementfeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
Azure AD B2C integration
App Service
The following App Serviceresources aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
App Service Certificate
App Service Managed Certificate
App Service Domain
The following App Servicefeatures aren't currently availablein Azure Government:
DeploymentDeployment options: only Local Git Repository and External Repository are available
Deployment options: only Local Git Repository and External Repository are available
Azure Functions
When connecting your Functions app to Application Insights in Azure Government, make sure you useAPPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING, which lets you customize the Application Insights endpoint.
APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING
Next steps
Learn more about Azure Government:
Acquiring and accessing Azure Government
Azure Government overview
Azure support for export controls
Azure Government compliance
Azure Government security
Azure guidance for secure isolation
Start using Azure Government:
Guidance for developers
Connect with the Azure Government portal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources