Compare Java application hosting options on Azure
Azure offers many options for teams to build and deploy Java applications. This article covers mainstream scenarios for Java on Azure and provides high-level planning suggestions and considerations.
Apache®,Apache Kafka,Apache Struts,Apache Tomcat, and the flame logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. No endorsement by The Apache Software Foundation is implied by the use of these marks.
Platform
Before you select a cloud scenario for your Java application, identify its platform. Most Java applications use one of the following platforms:
Spring Boot JAR applications
Spring Cloud applications
Web applications
Jakarta EE applications
Spring Boot JAR applications
Spring Boot JAR applications are typically invoked directly from the command line. They handle web requests. Instead of relying on an application server to handle HTTP requests, these applications incorporate HTTP communication and other dependencies directly into the application package. Such applications are often built with frameworks such asSpring Boot,Dropwizard,Micronaut,MicroProfile, andVert.x.
These applications are packaged into archives that have the.jarextension, known as JAR files.
Spring Cloud applications
Themicroservice architectural styleis an approach to developing a single application as a suite of small services. Each service runs in its own process and communicates by using lightweight mechanisms, often an HTTP resource API. These services are built around business capabilities.
Automated deployment machinery independently deploys these microservices. There's a minimum of centralized management, which might be written in different programming languages and use different data storage technologies. Such services are often built with frameworks such asSpring Cloud.
These services are packaged into multiple applications as JAR files.
Web applications
Web applications run inside a servlet container. Some use servlet APIs directly, while others use other frameworks that encapsulate servlet APIs, such asApache Struts,Spring MVC, andJavaServer Faces.
Web applications are packaged into archives that have the.warextension, known as WAR files.
Jakarta EE applications
Jakarta Enterprise Edition (Jakarta EE) applications can contain some, all, or none of the elements of web applications. They can also contain and consume many more components, as defined by the Jakarta EE specification. Jakarta EE applications were formerly known asJava EE applicationsorJ2EE applications.
Jakarta EE applications can be packaged as WAR files or as archives that have the.earextension, known as EAR files.
Jakarta EE applications must be deployed onto application servers that are Jakarta EE compliant. Examples includeWebLogic,WebSphere,WildFly,GlassFish, andPayara.
Applications that rely only on features provided by the Jakarta EE specification can be migrated from one compliant application server onto another. If your application is dependent on a specific application server, you might need to select an Azure service destination that permits you to host that application server.
Platform options
Use the following table to identify potential platforms for your application type.
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) and Virtual Machines support all application types, but they require that your team to take on more responsibilities, as described in the next section.
Supportability
Besides the platform choices, modern Java applications might have other supportability needs, such as:
Batch or scheduled jobs
Virtual network integration
Serverless
Containerization
Batch or scheduled jobs
Instead of waiting for requests or user input, some applications run briefly, run a particular workload, and then exit. Sometimes, such jobs need to run once or at regular, scheduled intervals. On-premises, such jobs are often invoked from a server's cron table.
These applications are packaged as JAR files.
Note
If your application uses a scheduler, such as Spring Batch or Quartz, to run scheduled tasks, we strongly recommend that you run those tasks outside of the application. If your application scales to multiple instances in the cloud, the same job can run more than once. If your scheduling mechanism uses the host's local time zone, there might be undesired behavior when you scale an application across regions.
Virtual network integration
When you deploy a Java application in your virtual network, it has outbound dependencies on services outside of the virtual network. For management and operations, your project must have access to certain ports and fully qualified domain names. With Azure Virtual Networks, you can place many of your Azure resources in a non-internet routable network. Thevirtual network integrationfeature enables your applications to access resources in or through a virtual network. Virtual network integration doesn't enable your applications to be accessed privately.
Serverless development model
Serverless is a cloud-native development model that allows developers to build and run applications without having to manage servers. With serverless applications, the cloud service provider automatically provisions, scales, and manages the infrastructure required to run the code. Servers still exist in the serverless model. They're abstracted away from application development.
Containerization
Containerization is the packaging together of software code with all its necessary components, like libraries, frameworks, and other dependencies. The application is isolated in its own container.
CI/CD
Continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) is a method to frequently deliver applications to customers by introducing automation into the stages of application development. The main concepts in CI/CD arecontinuous integration,continuous delivery, andcontinuous deployment. All of the Azure choices support most CI/CD tooling. For example, you might use solutions such asAzure PipelinesorJenkins.
Open-source search engine
Searches are integral parts of any application. If speed, performance, and high availability are critical, searches on terabytes and petabytes of data can be challenging. When you host Java applications on Azure, plan to host your related Solr and Elasticsearch instances. Alternatively, consider migrating toAzure AI Search.
Big data tools
Big data tools enable the automation of data flow among the software systems. They support scalable, robust, and streamlined data routing graphs along with system mediation logic. They're utilized to build live data flow pipelines and stream applications. Learn howApache Kafkaon Azure might be suitable for your needs.
Supportability options
Use the following table to identify potential options for your application type. AKS and Virtual Machines support all application types, but they require your team to take on more responsibilities.
Also, refer to this decision tree.

Download aVisio fileof this diagram.
Build or migrate Java applications
To build or migrate the Java applications, identify the Java platform of your applications. Some popular platforms areJava SE,Jakarta EE, andMicroProfile.
Java SE
Java Platform, Standard Edition (Java SE) is a computing platform for the development and deployment of portable code for desktop and server environments. Popular projects built on Java SE include Spring Boot, Spring Cloud,Spring Framework, andApache Tomcat.
Jakarta EE
Jakarta EE is the open source future of cloud-native enterprise Java. It's a set of specifications that extend Java SE with enterprise features such as distributed computing and web services. Jakarta EE applications run reference runtimes. These runtimes can be microservices or application servers. They handle transactions, security, scalability, concurrency, and management of the components the application deploys.
MicroProfile
The MicroProfile project provides a collection of specifications designed to help developers build Enterprise Java cloud-native microservices.QuarkusandOpen Libertyare popular implementations of MicroProfile.
Build or migrate summary
The following table provides build or migration information by application type and Azure service.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal authors:
Asir Vedamuthu Selvasingh| Principal Program Manager
Hang Wang| Product Manager
Xinyi Zhang| Principal PM Manager
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
Azure Container Apps overview
Azure Kubernetes Service
Azure Spring Apps documentation
Azure Virtual network integration
Virtual machines in Azure
Related resources
Microservices architecture design