Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Network security groups
Article
2025-04-03
17 contributors
In this article

You can use an Azure network security group to filter network traffic between Azure resources in an Azure virtual network. A network security group containssecurity rulesthat allow or deny inbound network traffic to, or outbound network traffic from, several types of Azure resources. For each rule, you can specify source and destination, port, and protocol.
This article explains the properties of a network security group rule and thedefault security rulesapplied by Azure. It also describes how to modify rule properties to create anaugmented security rule.
Security rules
A network security group contains as many rules as desired, within Azure subscriptionlimits. Each rule specifies the following properties:
_
.
-
\_
Security rules are evaluated and applied based on the five-tuple (source, source port, destination, destination port, and protocol) information. You can't create two security rules with the same priority and direction. A flow record is created for existing connections. Communication is allowed or denied based on the connection state of the flow record. The flow record allows a network security group to be stateful. If you specify an outbound security rule to any address over port 80, for example, it's not necessary to specify an inbound security rule for the response to the outbound traffic. You only need to specify an inbound security rule if communication is initiated externally. The opposite is also true. If inbound traffic is allowed over a port, it's not necessary to specify an outbound security rule to respond to traffic over the port.
When you remove a security rule that allowed a connection, existing connections remain uninterrupted. Network security group rules only affect new connections. New or updated rules in a network security group apply exclusively to new connections, leaving existing connections unaffected by the changes.
There are limits to the number of security rules you can create in a network security group. For details, seeAzure limits.
Default security rules
Azure creates the following default rules in each network security group that you create:
In theSourceandDestinationcolumns,VirtualNetwork,AzureLoadBalancer, andInternetareservice tags, rather than IP addresses. In the protocol column,Anyencompasses TCP, UDP, and ICMP. When creating a rule, you can specify TCP, UDP, ICMP or Any.0.0.0.0/0in theSourceandDestinationcolumns represents all addresses. Clients like Azure portal, Azure CLI, or PowerShell can use * or any for this expression.
You can't remove the default rules, but you can override them by creating rules with higher priorities.
Augmented security rules
Augmented security rules simplify security definition for virtual networks, allowing you to define larger and complex network security policies, with fewer rules. You can combine multiple ports and multiple explicit IP addresses and ranges into a single, easily understood security rule. Use augmented rules in the source, destination, and port fields of a rule. To simplify maintenance of your security rule definition, combine augmented security rules withservice tagsorapplication security groups. There are limits to the number of addresses, ranges, and ports that you can specify in a rule. For details, seeAzure limits.
A service tag represents a group of IP address prefixes from a given Azure service. It helps to minimize the complexity of frequent updates on network security rules.
For more information, seeAzure service tags. For an example on how to use the Storage service tag to restrict network access, seeRestrict network access to PaaS resources.
Application security groups enable you to configure network security as a natural extension of an application's structure, allowing you to group virtual machines and define network security policies based on those groups. You can reuse your security policy at scale without manual maintenance of explicit IP addresses. To learn more, seeApplication security groups.
Azure platform considerations
Virtual IP of the host node: Basic infrastructure services like DHCP, DNS, IMDS, and health monitoring are provided through the virtualized host IP addresses 168.63.129.16 and 169.254.169.254. These IP addresses belong to Microsoft and are the only virtualized IP addresses used in all regions for this purpose. By default, these services aren't subject to the configured network security groups unless targeted byservice tagsspecific to each service. To override this basic infrastructure communication, you can create a security rule to deny traffic by using the following service tags on your Network Security Group rules: AzurePlatformDNS, AzurePlatformIMDS, AzurePlatformLKM. Learn how todiagnose network traffic filteringanddiagnose network routing.
Virtual IP of the host node: Basic infrastructure services like DHCP, DNS, IMDS, and health monitoring are provided through the virtualized host IP addresses 168.63.129.16 and 169.254.169.254. These IP addresses belong to Microsoft and are the only virtualized IP addresses used in all regions for this purpose. By default, these services aren't subject to the configured network security groups unless targeted byservice tagsspecific to each service. To override this basic infrastructure communication, you can create a security rule to deny traffic by using the following service tags on your Network Security Group rules: AzurePlatformDNS, AzurePlatformIMDS, AzurePlatformLKM. Learn how todiagnose network traffic filteringanddiagnose network routing.
Licensing (Key Management Service): Windows images running in virtual machines must be licensed. To ensure licensing, a request is sent to the Key Management Service host servers that handle such queries. The request is made outbound through port 1688. For deployments usingdefault route 0.0.0.0/0configuration, this platform rule is disabled.
Licensing (Key Management Service): Windows images running in virtual machines must be licensed. To ensure licensing, a request is sent to the Key Management Service host servers that handle such queries. The request is made outbound through port 1688. For deployments usingdefault route 0.0.0.0/0configuration, this platform rule is disabled.
Virtual machines in load-balanced pools: The source port and address range applied are from the originating computer, not the load balancer. The destination port and address range are for the destination computer, not the load balancer.
Virtual machines in load-balanced pools: The source port and address range applied are from the originating computer, not the load balancer. The destination port and address range are for the destination computer, not the load balancer.
Azure service instances: Instances of several Azure services, such as HDInsight, Application Service Environments, and Virtual Machine Scale Sets are deployed in virtual network subnets. For a complete list of services you can deploy into virtual networks, seeVirtual network for Azure services. Before applying a network security group to the subnet, familiarize yourself with the port requirements for each service. If you deny ports required by the service, the service doesn't function properly.
Azure service instances: Instances of several Azure services, such as HDInsight, Application Service Environments, and Virtual Machine Scale Sets are deployed in virtual network subnets. For a complete list of services you can deploy into virtual networks, seeVirtual network for Azure services. Before applying a network security group to the subnet, familiarize yourself with the port requirements for each service. If you deny ports required by the service, the service doesn't function properly.
Sending outbound email: Microsoft recommends that you utilize authenticated SMTP relay services (typically connected via TCP port 587, but often others, as well) to send email from Azure Virtual Machines. SMTP relay services specialize in sender reputation, to minimize the possibility that partner email providers reject messages. Such SMTP relay services include, but aren't limited to, Exchange Online Protection and SendGrid. Use of SMTP relay services is in no way restricted in Azure, regardless of your subscription type.If you created your Azure subscription before November 15, 2017, in addition to being able to use SMTP relay services, you can send email directly over TCP port 25. If you created your subscription after November 15, 2017, you might not be able to send email directly over port 25. The behavior of outbound communication over port 25 depends on the type of subscription you have, as follows:Enterprise Agreement: For VMs that are deployed in standard Enterprise Agreement subscriptions, the outbound SMTP connections on TCP port 25 aren't blocked. However, there's no guarantee that external domains accept the incoming emails from the VMs. If external domains reject or filter emails, contact the email service providers of the external domains to resolve the problems. These problems aren't covered by Azure support.For Enterprise Dev/Test subscriptions, port 25 is blocked by default. It's possible to have this block removed. To request to have the block removed, go to theCan't send email (SMTP-Port 25)section of theDiagnose and Solvesettings page for the Azure Virtual Network resource in the Azure portal and run the diagnostic. This procedure exempts the qualified enterprise dev/test subscriptions automatically.After the subscription is exempted from this block and the VMs are stopped and restarted, all VMs in that subscription are exempted going forward. The exemption applies only to the subscription requested and only to VM traffic that is routed directly to the internet.Pay-as-you-go:Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.MSDN, Azure Pass, Azure in Open, Education, and Free trial: Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.Cloud service provider: Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.
Sending outbound email: Microsoft recommends that you utilize authenticated SMTP relay services (typically connected via TCP port 587, but often others, as well) to send email from Azure Virtual Machines. SMTP relay services specialize in sender reputation, to minimize the possibility that partner email providers reject messages. Such SMTP relay services include, but aren't limited to, Exchange Online Protection and SendGrid. Use of SMTP relay services is in no way restricted in Azure, regardless of your subscription type.
If you created your Azure subscription before November 15, 2017, in addition to being able to use SMTP relay services, you can send email directly over TCP port 25. If you created your subscription after November 15, 2017, you might not be able to send email directly over port 25. The behavior of outbound communication over port 25 depends on the type of subscription you have, as follows:
Enterprise Agreement: For VMs that are deployed in standard Enterprise Agreement subscriptions, the outbound SMTP connections on TCP port 25 aren't blocked. However, there's no guarantee that external domains accept the incoming emails from the VMs. If external domains reject or filter emails, contact the email service providers of the external domains to resolve the problems. These problems aren't covered by Azure support.For Enterprise Dev/Test subscriptions, port 25 is blocked by default. It's possible to have this block removed. To request to have the block removed, go to theCan't send email (SMTP-Port 25)section of theDiagnose and Solvesettings page for the Azure Virtual Network resource in the Azure portal and run the diagnostic. This procedure exempts the qualified enterprise dev/test subscriptions automatically.After the subscription is exempted from this block and the VMs are stopped and restarted, all VMs in that subscription are exempted going forward. The exemption applies only to the subscription requested and only to VM traffic that is routed directly to the internet.
Enterprise Agreement: For VMs that are deployed in standard Enterprise Agreement subscriptions, the outbound SMTP connections on TCP port 25 aren't blocked. However, there's no guarantee that external domains accept the incoming emails from the VMs. If external domains reject or filter emails, contact the email service providers of the external domains to resolve the problems. These problems aren't covered by Azure support.
For Enterprise Dev/Test subscriptions, port 25 is blocked by default. It's possible to have this block removed. To request to have the block removed, go to theCan't send email (SMTP-Port 25)section of theDiagnose and Solvesettings page for the Azure Virtual Network resource in the Azure portal and run the diagnostic. This procedure exempts the qualified enterprise dev/test subscriptions automatically.
After the subscription is exempted from this block and the VMs are stopped and restarted, all VMs in that subscription are exempted going forward. The exemption applies only to the subscription requested and only to VM traffic that is routed directly to the internet.
Pay-as-you-go:Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.
Pay-as-you-go:Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.
MSDN, Azure Pass, Azure in Open, Education, and Free trial: Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.
MSDN, Azure Pass, Azure in Open, Education, and Free trial: Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.
Cloud service provider: Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.
Cloud service provider: Outbound port 25 communication is blocked from all resources. No requests to remove the restriction can be made, because requests aren't granted. If you need to send email from your virtual machine, you have to use an SMTP relay service.
Next steps
Learn which Azure resources can be deployed into a virtual network. SeeVirtual network integration for Azure servicesto understand how network security groups can be associated with them.
Learn which Azure resources can be deployed into a virtual network. SeeVirtual network integration for Azure servicesto understand how network security groups can be associated with them.
To learn how traffic is evaluated with network security groups, seeHow network security groups work.
To learn how traffic is evaluated with network security groups, seeHow network security groups work.
Create a network security group by following this quicktutorial.
Create a network security group by following this quicktutorial.
If you're familiar with network security groups and need to manage them, seeManage a network security group.
If you're familiar with network security groups and need to manage them, seeManage a network security group.
If you're having communication problems and need to troubleshoot network security groups, seeDiagnose a virtual machine network traffic filter problem.
If you're having communication problems and need to troubleshoot network security groups, seeDiagnose a virtual machine network traffic filter problem.
Learn how to enablenetwork security group flow logsto analyze network traffic to and from resources that have an associated network security group.
Learn how to enablenetwork security group flow logsto analyze network traffic to and from resources that have an associated network security group.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources