Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Role-based access control
Article
2024-09-05
5 contributors
In this article
Applies to: 창혵Microsoft Fabric창혵Azure Data Explorer
Azure Data Explorer uses a role-based access control (RBAC) model in whichprincipalsget access to resources based on their assigned roles. Roles are defined for a specific cluster, database, table, external table, materialized view, or function. When defined for a cluster, the role applies to all databases in the cluster. When defined for a database, the role applies to all entities in the database.
Azure Resource Manager (ARM) roles, such as subscription owner or cluster owner, grant access permissions for resource administration. For data administration, you need the roles described in this document.
Note
To delete a database, you need at leastContributorARM permissions on the cluster. To assign ARM permissions, seeAssign Azure roles using the Azure portal.
Real-Time Intelligence in Fabric uses a hybrid role-based access control (RBAC) model in whichprincipalsget access to resources based on their assigned roles granted from one or both of two sources: Fabric, and Kustomanagement commands. The user will have the union of the roles granted from both sources.
Within Fabric, roles can be assigned or inherited byassigning a role in a workspace, or by sharing a specificitembased on theitem permission model.
Fabric roles
Roles can further be defined on the data plane for a specific database, table, external table, materialized view, or function, by usingmanagement commands. In both cases, roles applied at a higher level (Workspace, Eventhouse) are inherited by lower levels (Database, Table).
Roles and permissions
The following table outlines the roles and permissions available at each scope.
ThePermissionscolumn displays the access granted to each role.
TheDependenciescolumn lists the minimum roles required to obtain the role in that row. For example, to become a Table Admin, you must first have a role like Database User or a role that includes the permissions of Database User, such as Database Admin or AllDatabasesAdmin. When multiple roles are listed in theDependenciescolumn, only one of them is needed to obtain the role.
TheHow the role is obtainedcolumn offers ways that the role can be granted or inherited.
TheManagecolumn offers ways to add or remove role principals.
.show
.show
.show
Related content
Manage view access to tables within the same database
Manage function roles
Manage cluster permissions
Allow cross-tenant queries and commands
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources