Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Scalar data types
Article
2025-02-23
9 contributors
In this article
Applies to: âœMicrosoft FabricâœAzure Data ExplorerâœAzure MonitorâœMicrosoft Sentinel
Every data value, like the value of an expression or a function parameter, has adata typewhich is either ascalar data typeor auser-defined record. Ascalar data typeis one of the built-in predefined types inSupported data types. Auser-defined recordis an ordered sequence of name and scalar-data-type pairs, like the data type of a row in a table.
As in most languages, the data type determines what calculations and manipulations can be run against a value. For example, if you have a value that is of typestring, you won't be able to perform arithmetic calculations against it.
Note
While user-defined records are supported in Kusto, user-defined data types aren't.
Supported data types
In Kusto Query Language, most of the data types follow standard conventions and have names you've probably seen before. The following table shows the full list:
boolean
true
1
false
0
date
uuid
uniqueid
double
time
Tip
To check the data type of a value, use thegettype()function.
While most of the data types are standard, you might be less familiar with types likedynamicortimespan, andguid.
Dynamichas a structure similar to JSON, but with one key difference: It can store Kusto Query Language-specific data types that traditional JSON can't, such as a nesteddynamicvalue, ortimespan.
Dynamichas a structure similar to JSON, but with one key difference: It can store Kusto Query Language-specific data types that traditional JSON can't, such as a nesteddynamicvalue, ortimespan.
Timespanis a data type that refers to a measure of time such as hours, days, or seconds. Don't confusetimespanwithdatetime, which evaluates to an actual date and time, not a measure of time. The following table shows a list oftimespansuffixes.
Timespanis a data type that refers to a measure of time such as hours, days, or seconds. Don't confusetimespanwithdatetime, which evaluates to an actual date and time, not a measure of time. The following table shows a list oftimespansuffixes.
GUIDis a datatype representing a 128-bit, globally unique identifier, which follows the standard format of [8]-[4]-[4]-[4]-[12], where each [number] represents the number of characters and each character can range from 0-9 or a-f.
GUIDis a datatype representing a 128-bit, globally unique identifier, which follows the standard format of [8]-[4]-[4]-[4]-[12], where each [number] represents the number of characters and each character can range from 0-9 or a-f.
Null values
All nonstring data types can be null. When a value is null, it indicates an absence or mismatch of data. For example, if you try to input the stringabcinto an integer column, it results in the null value. To check if an expression is null, use theisnull()function.
abc
For more information, seeNull values.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources