Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
'D' family general purpose VM size series
Article
2024-08-22
1 contributor
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets
The 'D' family of VM sizes are one of Azure's general purpose VM sizes. They're designed for a variety of demanding workloads, such as enterprise applications, web and application servers, development and test environments, and batch processing tasks. Equipped with faster processors and more memory per core than the A-series, D-series VMs offer a strong performance balance, making them suitable for applications that require both high computational power and substantial memory resources. They are particularly favored for running enterprise-grade applications, supporting moderate to high-traffic web servers, and performing data-intensive batch processing.
Workloads and use cases
Balanced Performance:D-series VMs provide a solid balance between CPU capabilities and memory size, which makes them suitable for most production workloads. They are equipped with faster processors compared to the A-series and provide more memory per core.
Enterprise Applications:They are well-suited for running enterprise applications like SAP, Microsoft Dynamics, or large relational databases that require both high computational power and substantial memory.
Development and Test Environments:With their balanced resources, D-series VMs are ideal for development and testing environments where developers need to simulate production conditions closely.
Web and Application Servers:They provide the necessary resources to host web servers and application servers that experience moderate to heavy traffic, ensuring smooth and responsive user experiences.
Batch Processing:D-series VMs are efficient for handling batch processing tasks that require processing large amounts of data quickly, thanks to their fast processors and ample memory.
Gaming Servers:The high-performance capabilities of D-series VMs make them suitable for gaming servers where latency and speed are critical for a good user experience.
Series in family
Dpsv6 and Dplsv6-series
Dpsv6-series
Dplsv6-series
The Dpsv6-series virtual machines are powered by Azure’s first-generation Cobalt 100 processor, delivering outstanding performance for general-purpose workloads. The Azure Cobalt 100 processor operates at 3.4 GHz and provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer 4 GiB of memory per vCPU and a wide range of vCPU sizes. These VMs meet the requirements of most scale-out enterprise workloads such as web and application servers, small to medium databases, caches, and more. Dpsv6-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. For more information, see pricing for disks. Dpsv6-series virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU and 384 GiB of RAM. These VMs come without local disk, providing a better value proposition for workloads that don't require local temporary storage.
View the full Dpsv6-series page.
The Dplsv6-series virtual machines are powered by Azure’s first-generation Cobalt 100 processor, delivering outstanding performance for general-purpose workloads. The Azure Cobalt 100 processor operates at 3.4 GHz and provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer 2 GiB of memory per vCPU and a wide range of vCPU sizes. These VMs meet the requirements of most non-memory-intensive and scale-out workloads such as microservices, small databases, caches, gaming servers, and more. Dplsv6-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. For more information, see pricing for disks. Dplsv6-series virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU and 192 GiB of RAM. These VMs come without local disk, providing a better value proposition for workloads that don't require local temporary storage.
View the full Dplsv6-series page.
Dpdsv6 and Dpldsv6-series
Dpdsv6-series
Dpldsv6-series
The Dpdsv6-series virtual machines are powered by Azure’s first-generation Cobalt 100 processor, delivering outstanding performance for general-purpose workloads. The Azure Cobalt 100 processor operates at 3.4 GHz and provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer 4 GiB of memory per vCPU and a wide range of vCPU sizes. These VMs meet the requirements of most scale-out enterprise workloads such as web and application servers, small to medium databases, caches, and more. Dpdsv6-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. For more information, see pricing for disks. Dpdsv6-series virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU, up to 384 GiB of RAM, and up to 5,280 GiB of fast local NVMe temporary storage.
View the full Dpdsv6-series page.
The Dpldsv6-series virtual machines are powered by Azure’s first-generation Cobalt 100 processor, delivering outstanding performance for general-purpose workloads. The Azure Cobalt 100 processor operates at 3.4 GHz and provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer 2 GiB of memory per vCPU and a wide range of vCPU sizes. These VMs meet the requirements of most non-memory-intensive and scale-out workloads such as microservices, small databases, caches, gaming servers, and more. Dpldsv6-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. For more information, see pricing for disks. Dpldsv6-series virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU, up to 192 GiB of RAM, and up to 5,280 GiB of fast local NVMe temporary storage.
View the full Dpldsv6-series page.
Dasv6 and Dadsv6-series
Dasv6-series
Dadsv6-series
Dasv6-series VMs utilize AMD's 4th Generation EPYC™ 9004 processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.7GHz. These virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU and 384 GiB of RAM. The Dasv6-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU and memory for most production workloads. The new VMs with no local disk provide a better value proposition for workloads that do not require local temporary storage.
View the full Dasv6-series page.
Dadsv6-series VMs utilize AMD's 4th Generation EPYC™ 9004 processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.7GHz. These virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU and 384 GiB of RAM. The Dadsv6-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory and fast local NVMe temporary storage for most production workloads. Dadsv6-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. 
View the full Dadsv6-series page.
Dalsv6 and Daldsv6-series
Dalsv6-series
Daldsv6-series
Dalsv6-series VMs utilize AMD's 4th Generation EPYC™ 9004 processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.7GHz. These virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU and 192 GiB of RAM. These VM sizes can reduce cost when running non-memory intensive applications. The new VMs with no local disk provide a better value proposition for workloads that do not require local temporary storage.
View the full Dalsv6-series page.
Daldsv6-series VMs utilize AMD's 4th Generation EPYC™  9004 processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.7GHz. These virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPUs, 192 GiB of RAM, and up to 5,280 GiB of fast local NVMe temporary storage. These VM sizes can reduce cost when running non-memory intensive applications.  Daldsv6-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines.
View the full Daldsv6-series page.
Dv5 and Dsv5-series
Dv5-series
Dsv5-series
The Dv5 and Dsv5-series virtual machines run on Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8473C (Sapphire Rapids), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor in ahyper threadedconfiguration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. This new processor features an all core turbo clock speed of 3.5 GHz withIntel® Turbo Boost Technology,Intel® Advanced-Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512)andIntel® Deep Learning Boost. These virtual machines offer a combination of vCPUs and memory to meet the requirements associated with most enterprise workloads, such as small-to-medium databases, low-to-medium traffic web servers, application servers and more. The Dv5 and Dsv5-series provide a better value proposition for workloads that don't require local temp disk. For information about similar virtual machines with local disk, seeDdv5 and Ddsv5-series VMs.
View the full Dv5-series page.
The Dv5 and Dsv5-series virtual machines run on Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8473C (Sapphire Rapids), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor in ahyper threadedconfiguration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. This new processor features an all core turbo clock speed of 3.5 GHz withIntel® Turbo Boost Technology,Intel® Advanced-Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512)andIntel® Deep Learning Boost. These virtual machines offer a combination of vCPUs and memory to meet the requirements associated with most enterprise workloads, such as small-to-medium databases, low-to-medium traffic web servers, application servers and more. The Dv5 and Dsv5-series provide a better value proposition for workloads that don't require local temp disk. For information about similar virtual machines with local disk, seeDdv5 and Ddsv5-series VMs.
View the full Dsv5-series page.
Ddv5 and Ddsv5-series
Ddv5-series
Ddsv5-series
The Ddv5 and Ddsv5-series Virtual Machines run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor in ahyper threadedconfiguration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. This new processor features an all core turbo clock speed of 3.5 GHz withIntel® Turbo Boost Technology,Intel® Advanced-Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512)andIntel® Deep Learning Boost. These virtual machines offer a combination of vCPUs, memory and temporary storage able to meet the requirements associated with most enterprise workloads, such as small-to-medium databases, low-to-medium traffic web servers, application servers and more.
View the full Ddv5-series page.
The Ddv5 and Ddsv5-series Virtual Machines run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor in ahyper threadedconfiguration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. This new processor features an all core turbo clock speed of 3.5 GHz withIntel® Turbo Boost Technology,Intel® Advanced-Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512)andIntel® Deep Learning Boost. These virtual machines offer a combination of vCPUs, memory and temporary storage able to meet the requirements associated with most enterprise workloads, such as small-to-medium databases, low-to-medium traffic web servers, application servers and more.
View the full Ddsv5-series page.
Dasv5 and Dadsv5-series
Dasv5-series
Dadsv5-series
Dasv5-series VMs utilize AMD's 3rd Generation EPYC™ 7763v processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.5GHz. The Dasv5-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU and memory for most production workloads. The new VMs with no local disk provide a better value proposition for workloads that do not require local temp disk.
View the full Dasv5-series page.
Dadsv5-series utilize AMD's third Generation EPYC™ 7763v processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.5GHz. The Dadsv5-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory, and temporary storage for most production workloads. The new VMs have 50% larger local storage and better local disk IOPS for both read and write compared to the Dav4/Dasv4 sizes with Gen2 VMs.
Dadsv5-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines.
View the full Dadsv5-series page.
Dpsv5 and Dpdsv5-series
Dpsv5-series
Dpdsv5-series
The Dpsv5-series and Dpdsv5-series virtual machines are based on the Arm architecture, delivering outstanding price-performance for general-purpose workloads. These virtual machines feature the Ampere® Altra® Arm-based processor operating at 3.0 GHz, which provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer a range of vCPU sizes, up to 4 GiB of memory per vCPU, and temporary storage options able to meet the requirements of scale-out and most enterprise workloads such as web and application servers, small to medium databases, caches, and more.
View the full Dpsv5-series page.
The Dpsv5-series and Dpdsv5-series virtual machines are based on the Arm architecture, delivering outstanding price-performance for general-purpose workloads. These virtual machines feature the Ampere® Altra® Arm-based processor operating at 3.0 GHz, which provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer a range of vCPU sizes, up to 4 GiB of memory per vCPU, and temporary storage options able to meet the requirements of scale-out and most enterprise workloads such as web and application servers, small to medium databases, caches, and more.
View the full Dpdsv5-series page.
Dplsv5 and Dpldsv5-series
Dplsv5-series
Dpldsv5-series
The Dplsv5-series and Dpldsv5-series virtual machines are based on the Arm architecture, delivering outstanding price-performance for general-purpose workloads. These virtual machines feature the Ampere® Altra® Arm-based processor operating at 3.0 GHz, which provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer a range of vCPU sizes, up to 2 GiB of memory per vCPU, and temporary storage options able to meet the requirements of most non-memory-intensive and scale-out workloads such as microservices, small databases, caches, gaming servers, and more.
View the full Dplsv5-series page.
The Dplsv5-series and Dpldsv5-series virtual machines are based on the Arm architecture, delivering outstanding price-performance for general-purpose workloads. These virtual machines feature the Ampere® Altra® Arm-based processor operating at 3.0 GHz, which provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer a range of vCPU sizes, up to 2 GiB of memory per vCPU, and temporary storage options able to meet the requirements of most non-memory-intensive and scale-out workloads such as microservices, small databases, caches, gaming servers, and more.
View the full Dpldsv5-series page.
Dlsv5 and Dldsv5-series
Dlsv5-series
Dldsv5-series
Dlsv5-series virtual machines run on Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8473C (Sapphire Rapids), or Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor reaching an all core turbo clock speed of up to 3.5 GHz. These virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU and 192 GiB of RAM. These VM sizes can reduce cost when not running memory intensive applications.
Dlsv5-series virtual machines don't have any temporary storage thus lowering the price of entry. You can attach Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. See pricing for disks.
View the full Dlsv5-series page.
Dldsv5-series virtual machines run on the third Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor reaching an all core turbo clock speed of up to 3.5 GHz. These virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU and 192 GiB of RAM and fast, local SSD storage up to 3,600 GiB. These VM sizes can reduce cost when not running memory intensive applications.
Dldsv5-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. See pricing for disks.
View the full Dldsv5-series page.
Dv4 and Dsv4-series
Dv4-series
Dsv4-series
The Dv4 and Dsv4-series run on Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8473C (Sapphire Rapids), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), or Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. It features an all core Turbo clock speed of 3.4 GHz,Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0,Intel® Hyper-Threading TechnologyandIntel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512). They also supportIntel® Deep Learning Boost.
View the full Dv4-series page.
The Dv4 and Dsv4-series run on Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8473C (Sapphire Rapids), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), or Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. It features an all core Turbo clock speed of 3.4 GHz,Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0,Intel® Hyper-Threading TechnologyandIntel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512). They also supportIntel® Deep Learning Boost.
View the full Dsv4-series page.
Dav4 and Dasv4-series
Dav4-series
Dasv4-series
The Dav4-series run on 2nd Generation AMD EPYC™ 7452 (up to 3.35GHz) or 3rd Generation EPYC™ 7763v processors (up to 3.5GHz). The Dav4-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory and temporary storage for most production workloads. Data disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. To use premium SSD, use the Dasv4 sizes. The pricing and billing meters for Dasv4 sizes are the same as the Dav4-series.
View the full Dav4-series page.
The Dasv4-series run on 2nd Generation AMD EPYC™ 7452 (up to 3.35GHz) or 3rd Generation EPYC™ 7763v processors (up to 3.5GHz) and use premium SSD. The Dasv4-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory and temporary storage for most production workloads.
View the full Dasv4-series page.
Ddv4 and Ddsv4-series
Ddv4-series
Ddsv4-series
The Ddv4 and Ddsv4-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) or the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. It features an all core Turbo clock speed of 3.4 GHz,Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0,Intel® Hyper-Threading TechnologyandIntel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512). They also supportIntel® Deep Learning Boost. These new VM sizes will have 50% larger local storage, as well as better local disk IOPS for both read and write compared to theDv3/Dsv3sizes withGen2 VMs. D-series use cases include enterprise-grade applications, relational databases, in-memory caching, and analytics.
View the full Ddv4-series page.
The Ddv4 and Ddsv4-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) or the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. It features an all core Turbo clock speed of 3.4 GHz,Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0,Intel® Hyper-Threading TechnologyandIntel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512). They also supportIntel® Deep Learning Boost. These new VM sizes will have 50% larger local storage, as well as better local disk IOPS for both read and write compared to theDv3/Dsv3sizes withGen2 VMs. D-series use cases include enterprise-grade applications, relational databases, in-memory caching, and analytics.
View the full Ddsv4-series page.
Dv3 and Dsv3-series
Dv3-series
Dsv3-series
The Dv3-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1GHz (Skylake), Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general purpose workloads. Memory has been expanded (from ~3.5 GiB/vCPU to 4 GiB/vCPU) while disk and network limits have been adjusted on a per core basis to align with the move to hyperthreading. The Dv3-series no longer has the high memory VM sizes of the D/Dv2-series, those have been moved to the memory optimized Ev3 and Esv3-series. Example D-series use cases include enterprise-grade applications, relational databases, in-memory caching, and analytics.
View the full Dv3-series page.
The Dv3-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1GHz (Skylake), Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general purpose workloads. Memory has been expanded (from ~3.5 GiB/vCPU to 4 GiB/vCPU) while disk and network limits have been adjusted on a per core basis to align with the move to hyperthreading. The Dv3-series no longer has the high memory VM sizes of the D/Dv2-series, those have been moved to the memory optimized Ev3 and Esv3-series. Example D-series use cases include enterprise-grade applications, relational databases, in-memory caching, and analytics.
View the full Dsv3-series page.
Dv2 and Dsv2-series
Dv2-series
Dsv2-series
The Dv2 and DSv2-series, a follow-on to the original D-series, feature a more powerful CPU and optimal CPU-to-memory configuration making them suitable for most production workloads. The Dv2-series is about 35% faster than the D-series. Dv2-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1GHz (Skylake), Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors with the Intel Turbo Boost Technology 2.0. The Dv2-series has the same memory and disk configurations as the D-series.
View the full Dv2-series page.
The Dv2 and DSv2-series, a follow-on to the original D-series, feature a more powerful CPU and optimal CPU-to-memory configuration making them suitable for most production workloads. The Dv2-series is about 35% faster than the D-series. Dv2-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1GHz (Skylake), Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors with the Intel Turbo Boost Technology 2.0. The Dv2-series has the same memory and disk configurations as the D-series.
View the full Dsv2-series page.
Previous-generation D family series
For older sizes, seeprevious generation sizes.
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources