Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Language runtime support policy for Azure App Service
Article
2025-03-25
7 contributors
In this article
This article describes the language runtime support policy for updating existing stacks and retiring end-of-support stacks in Azure App Service. This policy clarifies existing practices and doesn't represent a change to customer commitments.
Updates to existing stacks
App Service updates existing stacks after they become available from each community. App Service updates major versions of stacks but can't guarantee any specific minor versions or patch versions. The platform controls minor and patch versions. For example, App Service updates Node 18 but doesn't guarantee a specific Node 18.x.x version. If you need a specific minor or patch version, use acustom container.
Retirements
App Service follows community support timelines for the lifecycle of the runtime. After community support for a language reaches the end of support, your applications continue to run unchanged. However, App Service can't provide security patches or related customer support for that runtime version past its end-of-support date. If your application has any problems past the end-of-support date for that version, you should move up to a supported version to receive the latest security patches and features.
Important
If you're running apps that use an unsupported language version, you need to upgrade to a supported language version before you can get support for those apps.
Notifications
End-of-support dates for runtime versions are determined independently by their respective stacks and are outside the control of App Service. App Service sends reminder notifications to subscription owners for upcoming end-of-support runtime versions when they become available for each language.
Roles that receive notifications include account administrators, service administrators, and coadministrators. Contributors, readers, or other roles don't directly receive notifications unless they opt in to receive notification emails by usingService Health Alerts.
Timelines for language runtime version support
To learn more about specific timelines for the language support policy, see the following resources:
.NET and ASP.NET Core
.NET Framework and ASP.NET
Node
Java
Python
PHP
Go
Support status
App Service supports languages on both Linux and Windows operating systems. See the following resources for the list of OS support for each language:
.NET
Java
Node
Python
PHP
Configure language versions
To learn more about how to update language versions for your App Service applications, see the following resources:
.NET
Java
Node
Python
PHP
Java-specific runtime statement of support
JDK versions and maintenance
Security updates
Deprecation and retirement
Local development
JDK versions and maintenance
Microsoft and Adoptium builds of OpenJDK are provided and supported on App Service for Java 21, 17, 11, and 8. These binaries are provided as a no-cost, multiplatform, production-ready distribution of OpenJDK for Azure. The binaries contain all the components for building and running Java SE applications. For local development or testing, you candownload the Microsoft build of OpenJDK.
Linux
Windows
* Alpine 3.16 is the last supported Alpine distribution in App Service. You should pin to a version to avoid switching over to Ubuntu automatically. Make sure that you test and switch to a Java offering that is supported by Ubuntu-based distributions when possible.
If you'repinnedto an earlier minor version of Java, your app might be using the deprecatedAzul Zulu for Azurebinaries that are provided throughAzul Systems. You can keep using these binaries for your app, but any security patches or improvements are available only in more recent versions of OpenJDK. In this scenario, we recommend that you periodically update your web apps to a more recent version of Java.
Major version updates are provided through new runtime options in Azure App Service. Update to these later versions of Java by configuring your App Service deployment. You're responsible for testing and ensuring the major update meets your needs.
Supported JDKs are automatically patched on a quarterly basis in January, April, July, and October of each year. For more information, seeJava on Azure.
Security updates
Patches and fixes for major security vulnerabilities are released as soon as they become available in Microsoft builds of OpenJDK. Amajor vulnerabilityis a vulnerability that has a base score of 9.0 or higher on theNIST Common Vulnerability Scoring System, version 2.
Tomcat 8.5 reachedend of support as of March 31, 2024and Tomcat 10.0 reachedend of support as of October 31, 2022.
Although the runtimes are still available on Azure App Service, Tomcat 10 and Tomcat 8.5 don't receive security updates.
When possible, migrate your applications to Tomcat 9.0 or Tomcat 10.1. Tomcat 9.0 and Tomcat 10.1 are available on Azure App Service. For more information, see theApache Tomcat documentation.
Community support for Java 7 ended on July 29, 2022 andJava 7 was retired from App Service. If you have a web app running on Java 7, upgrade to Java 8 or Java 11 immediately.
Deprecation and retirement
If a supported Java runtime is retired, Azure developers who use the affected runtime receive a deprecation notice at least six months before the runtime is retired.
Reasons to move to Java 11
Java 7 migration guide
Local development
Developers candownloadthe Microsoft build of OpenJDK for local development.
Product support for theMicrosoft build of OpenJDKis available through Microsoft when you develop for Azure orAzure Stackwith aqualified Azure support plan.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources