Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitor Microsoft Entra Connect Sync with Microsoft Entra Connect Health
Article
2025-04-09
5 contributors
In this article
The following documentation is specific to monitoring Microsoft Entra Connect (Sync) with Microsoft Entra Connect Health. For information on monitoring AD FS with Microsoft Entra Connect Health seeUsing Microsoft Entra Connect Health with AD FS. Additionally, for information on monitoring Active Directory Domain Services with Microsoft Entra Connect Health seeUsing Microsoft Entra Connect Health with AD DS.

Important
Microsoft Entra Connect Health for Sync requires Microsoft Entra Connect Sync V2. If you are still using Azure AD Connect V1 you must upgrade to the latest version.
Azure AD Connect V1 is retired on August 31, 2022. Microsoft Entra Connect Health for Sync no longer works with Azure AD Connect V1 in December 2022.

Alerts for Microsoft Entra Connect Health for sync
The Microsoft Entra Connect Health Alerts for sync section provides the list of active alerts. Each alert includes relevant information, resolution steps, and links to related documentation. By selecting an active or resolved alert you see a new blade with additional information and the steps you can take to resolve the alert, and links to additional documentation. You can also view historical data on alerts that were resolved in the past.

Limited Evaluation of Alerts
If Microsoft Entra Connect is NOT using the default configuration (for example, if Attribute Filtering is changed from the default configuration to a custom configuration), then the Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent won't upload the error events related to Microsoft Entra Connect.
This limits the evaluation of alerts by the service. You'll see a banner that indicates this condition in theMicrosoft Entra admin centerunder your service.

You can change this by selecting "Settings" and allowing Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent to upload all error logs.

Sync Insight
Admins Frequently want to know about the time it takes to sync changes to Microsoft Entra ID and the amount of changes taking place. This feature provides an easy way to visualize this using the below graphs:
Latency of sync operations
Object Change trend
Sync Latency
This feature provides a graphical trend of latency of the sync operations (such as import and export) for connectors. This provides a quick and easy way to understand the latency of your operations. The latency is larger if you have a large set of changes occurring. Additionally, it provides a way to detect anomalies in the latency that may require further investigation.

By default, only the latency of the 'Export' operation for the Microsoft Entra connector is shown. To see more operations on the connector or to view operations from other connectors, right-select on the chart,  select Edit Chart or select on the "Edit Latency Chart" button and choose the specific operation and connectors.
Sync Object Changes
This feature provides a graphical trend of the number of changes that are being evaluated and exported to Microsoft Entra ID. Today, trying to gather this information from the sync logs is difficult. The chart gives you, not only a simpler way of monitoring the number of changes that are occurring in your environment, but also a visual view of the failures that are occurring.

Object Level Synchronization Error Report
This feature provides a report about synchronization errors that can occur when identity data is synchronized between Windows Server AD and Microsoft Entra ID using Microsoft Entra Connect.
The report covers errors recorded by the sync client (Microsoft Entra Connect version 1.1.281.0 or higher)
The report covers errors recorded by the sync client (Microsoft Entra Connect version 1.1.281.0 or higher)
It includes the errors that occurred in the last synchronization operation on the sync engine. ("Export" on the Microsoft Entra Connector.)
It includes the errors that occurred in the last synchronization operation on the sync engine. ("Export" on the Microsoft Entra Connector.)
Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent for sync must have outbound connectivity to the required end points for the report to include the latest data.
Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent for sync must have outbound connectivity to the required end points for the report to include the latest data.
The report isupdated after every 30 minutesusing the data uploaded by Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent for sync.
It provides the following key capabilitiesCategorization of errorsList of objects with error per categoryAll the data about the errors at one placeSide by side comparison of Objects with error due to a conflictDownload the error report as a CVS
The report isupdated after every 30 minutesusing the data uploaded by Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent for sync.
It provides the following key capabilities
Categorization of errors
List of objects with error per category
All the data about the errors at one place
Side by side comparison of Objects with error due to a conflict
Download the error report as a CVS
Categorization of Errors
The report categorizes the existing synchronization errors in the following categories:

List of objects with error per category
Drilling into each category provides the list of objects having the error in that category.
Error Details
Following data is available in the detailed view for each error
Highlighted conflicting attribute
Identifiers for theAD Objectinvolved
Identifiers for theMicrosoft Entra Objectinvolved (as applicable)
Error description and how to fix

Download the error report as CSV
By selecting the "Export" button you can download a CSV file with all the details about all the errors.
Diagnose and remediate sync errors
For specific duplicated attribute sync error scenario involving user Source Anchor update, you can fix them directly from the portal.
Read more aboutDiagnose and remediate duplicated attribute sync errors
Related links
Troubleshooting Errors during synchronization
Duplicate Attribute Resiliency
Microsoft Entra Connect Health
Microsoft Entra Connect Health Agent Installation
Microsoft Entra Connect Health Operations
Using Microsoft Entra Connect Health with AD FS
Using Microsoft Entra Connect Health with AD DS
Microsoft Entra Connect Health FAQ
Microsoft Entra Connect Health Version History
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources