Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Assess VMware VMs for migration to Azure VMs
Article
2025-04-23
5 contributors
In this article
As part of your migration journey to Azure, you assess your on-premises workloads to measure cloud readiness, identify risks, and estimate costs and complexity.
This article shows you how to assess discovered servers from your VMware environment in preparation for migration to Azure VMs, using the Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment tool.
Note
This end-to-end VMware migration scenario documentation is currently in preview. For more information about using Azure Migrate, see theAzure Migrate product documentation.
In this tutorial, you learn how to:
Run an assessment based on server metadata and configuration information.
Run an assessment based on performance data.
Note
Tutorials show the quickest path for trying out a scenario, and use default options where possible.
If you don't have an Azure subscription, create afree accountbefore you begin.
Prerequisites
Before you follow this tutorial to assess your servers for migration to Azure VMs, make sure you've discovered the servers you want to assess:
To discover servers using the Azure Migrate appliance,follow this tutorial.
To discover servers using an imported CSV file,follow this tutorial.
Decide which assessment to run
Decide whether you want to run an assessment using sizing criteria based on server configuration data/metadata that's collected as-is on-premises, or on dynamic performance data.
Run an assessment
Run an assessment as follows:
InServers, databases and web apps, selectDiscover, assess and migrate.
InServers, databases and web apps, selectDiscover, assess and migrate.

InAzure Migrate: Discovery and assessment, selectAssessand selectAzure VM.
InAzure Migrate: Discovery and assessment, selectAssessand selectAzure VM.

InAssess servers>Assessment type, selectAzure VM.
InAssess servers>Assessment type, selectAzure VM.
InDiscovery source:If you discovered servers using the appliance, selectServers discovered from Azure Migrate appliance.If you discovered servers using an imported CSV file, selectImported servers.
InDiscovery source:
If you discovered servers using the appliance, selectServers discovered from Azure Migrate appliance.
If you discovered servers using an imported CSV file, selectImported servers.
SelectEditto review the assessment properties.
SelectEditto review the assessment properties.

InAssessment properties>Target Properties:InTarget location, specify the Azure region to which you want to migrate.Size and cost recommendations are based on the location that you specify. Once you change the target location from default, you will be prompted to specifyReserved InstancesandVM series.In Azure Government, you can target assessments inthese regions.InStorage type,If you want to use performance-based data in the assessment, selectAutomaticfor Azure Migrate to recommend a storage type, based on disk IOPS and throughput.Alternatively, select the storage type you want to use for VM when you migrate it.InSavings options (compute), specify the savings option that you want the assessment to consider, helping to optimize your Azure compute cost.Azure reservations(1 year or 3 year reserved) are a good option for the most consistently running resources.Azure Savings Plan(1 year or 3 year savings plan) provide additional flexibility and automated cost optimization. Ideally post migration, you could use Azure reservation and savings plan at the same time (reservation will be consumed first), but in the Azure Migrate assessments, you can only see cost estimates of 1 savings option at a time.When you select 'None', the Azure compute cost is based on the Pay as you go rate or based on actual usage.You need to select pay-as-you-go in offer/licensing program to be able to use Reserved Instances or Azure Savings Plan. When you select any savings option other than 'None', the 'Discount (%)' and 'VM uptime' properties are not applicable.
InAssessment properties>Target Properties:
InTarget location, specify the Azure region to which you want to migrate.
Size and cost recommendations are based on the location that you specify. Once you change the target location from default, you will be prompted to specifyReserved InstancesandVM series.
In Azure Government, you can target assessments inthese regions.
InStorage type,If you want to use performance-based data in the assessment, selectAutomaticfor Azure Migrate to recommend a storage type, based on disk IOPS and throughput.Alternatively, select the storage type you want to use for VM when you migrate it.
If you want to use performance-based data in the assessment, selectAutomaticfor Azure Migrate to recommend a storage type, based on disk IOPS and throughput.
Alternatively, select the storage type you want to use for VM when you migrate it.
InSavings options (compute), specify the savings option that you want the assessment to consider, helping to optimize your Azure compute cost.Azure reservations(1 year or 3 year reserved) are a good option for the most consistently running resources.Azure Savings Plan(1 year or 3 year savings plan) provide additional flexibility and automated cost optimization. Ideally post migration, you could use Azure reservation and savings plan at the same time (reservation will be consumed first), but in the Azure Migrate assessments, you can only see cost estimates of 1 savings option at a time.When you select 'None', the Azure compute cost is based on the Pay as you go rate or based on actual usage.You need to select pay-as-you-go in offer/licensing program to be able to use Reserved Instances or Azure Savings Plan. When you select any savings option other than 'None', the 'Discount (%)' and 'VM uptime' properties are not applicable.
Azure reservations(1 year or 3 year reserved) are a good option for the most consistently running resources.
Azure Savings Plan(1 year or 3 year savings plan) provide additional flexibility and automated cost optimization. Ideally post migration, you could use Azure reservation and savings plan at the same time (reservation will be consumed first), but in the Azure Migrate assessments, you can only see cost estimates of 1 savings option at a time.
When you select 'None', the Azure compute cost is based on the Pay as you go rate or based on actual usage.
You need to select pay-as-you-go in offer/licensing program to be able to use Reserved Instances or Azure Savings Plan. When you select any savings option other than 'None', the 'Discount (%)' and 'VM uptime' properties are not applicable.
InVM Size:InSizing criterion, select if you want to base the assessment on server configuration data/metadata, or on performance-based data. If you use performance data:InPerformance history, indicate the data duration on which you want to base the assessment.InPercentile utilization, specify the percentile value you want to use for the performance sample.InVM Series, specify the Azure VM series you want to consider.If you're using performance-based assessment, Azure Migrate suggests a value for you.Tweak settings as needed. For example, if you don't have a production environment that needs A-series VMs in Azure, you can exclude A-series from the list of series.InComfort factor, indicate the buffer you want to use during assessment. This accounts for issues like seasonal usage, short performance history, and likely increases in future usage. For example, if you use a comfort factor of two:ComponentEffective utilizationAdd comfort factor (2.0)Cores24Memory8 GB16 GB
InVM Size:
InSizing criterion, select if you want to base the assessment on server configuration data/metadata, or on performance-based data. If you use performance data:InPerformance history, indicate the data duration on which you want to base the assessment.InPercentile utilization, specify the percentile value you want to use for the performance sample.
InSizing criterion, select if you want to base the assessment on server configuration data/metadata, or on performance-based data. If you use performance data:
InPerformance history, indicate the data duration on which you want to base the assessment.
InPercentile utilization, specify the percentile value you want to use for the performance sample.
InVM Series, specify the Azure VM series you want to consider.If you're using performance-based assessment, Azure Migrate suggests a value for you.Tweak settings as needed. For example, if you don't have a production environment that needs A-series VMs in Azure, you can exclude A-series from the list of series.
InVM Series, specify the Azure VM series you want to consider.
If you're using performance-based assessment, Azure Migrate suggests a value for you.
Tweak settings as needed. For example, if you don't have a production environment that needs A-series VMs in Azure, you can exclude A-series from the list of series.
InComfort factor, indicate the buffer you want to use during assessment. This accounts for issues like seasonal usage, short performance history, and likely increases in future usage. For example, if you use a comfort factor of two:ComponentEffective utilizationAdd comfort factor (2.0)Cores24Memory8 GB16 GB
InComfort factor, indicate the buffer you want to use during assessment. This accounts for issues like seasonal usage, short performance history, and likely increases in future usage. For example, if you use a comfort factor of two:
InPricing:InOffer, specify theAzure offerif you're enrolled. The assessment estimates the cost for that offer.InCurrency, select the billing currency for your account.InDiscount (%), add any subscription-specific discounts you receive on top of the Azure offer. The default setting is 0%.InVM Uptime, specify the duration (days per month/hour per day) that VMs will run.This is useful for Azure VMs that won't run continuously.Cost estimates are based on the duration specified.Default is 31 days per month/24 hours per day.InEA Subscription, specify whether to take an Enterprise Agreement (EA) subscription discount into account for cost estimation.InAzure Hybrid Benefit, specify whether you already have a Windows Server license or Enterprise Linux subscription (RHEL and SLES). If you do and they're covered with active Software Assurance of Windows Server or Enterprise Linux Subscriptions (RHEL and SLES), you can apply for theAzure Hybrid Benefitwhen you bring licenses to Azure.
InPricing:
InOffer, specify theAzure offerif you're enrolled. The assessment estimates the cost for that offer.
InCurrency, select the billing currency for your account.
InDiscount (%), add any subscription-specific discounts you receive on top of the Azure offer. The default setting is 0%.
InVM Uptime, specify the duration (days per month/hour per day) that VMs will run.This is useful for Azure VMs that won't run continuously.Cost estimates are based on the duration specified.
This is useful for Azure VMs that won't run continuously.
Cost estimates are based on the duration specified.
Default is 31 days per month/24 hours per day.
InEA Subscription, specify whether to take an Enterprise Agreement (EA) subscription discount into account for cost estimation.
InAzure Hybrid Benefit, specify whether you already have a Windows Server license or Enterprise Linux subscription (RHEL and SLES). If you do and they're covered with active Software Assurance of Windows Server or Enterprise Linux Subscriptions (RHEL and SLES), you can apply for theAzure Hybrid Benefitwhen you bring licenses to Azure.
SelectSaveif you make changes.
SelectSaveif you make changes.
InAssess Servers, selectNext.
InAssess Servers, selectNext.
InSelect servers to assess>Assessment name, specify a name for the assessment.
InSelect servers to assess>Assessment name, specify a name for the assessment.
InSelect or create a group, selectCreate Newand specify a group name.
InSelect or create a group, selectCreate Newand specify a group name.

Select the appliance, and select the VMs you want to add to the group. Then selectNext.
Select the appliance, and select the VMs you want to add to the group. Then selectNext.
InReview + create assessment, review the assessment details, and selectCreate Assessmentto create the group and run the assessment.
InReview + create assessment, review the assessment details, and selectCreate Assessmentto create the group and run the assessment.
After the assessment is created, view it inServers, databases and web apps>Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment>Assessments.
After the assessment is created, view it inServers, databases and web apps>Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment>Assessments.
SelectExport assessment, to download it as an Excel file.NoteFor performance-based assessments, we recommend that you wait at least a day after starting discovery before you create an assessment. This provides time to collect performance data with higher confidence. Ideally, after you start discovery, wait for the performance duration you specify (day/week/month) for a high-confidence rating.
SelectExport assessment, to download it as an Excel file.
Note
For performance-based assessments, we recommend that you wait at least a day after starting discovery before you create an assessment. This provides time to collect performance data with higher confidence. Ideally, after you start discovery, wait for the performance duration you specify (day/week/month) for a high-confidence rating.
Review an assessment
An assessment describes:
Azure readiness: Whether VMs are suitable for migration to Azure.
Monthly cost estimation: The estimated monthly compute and storage costs for running the VMs in Azure.
Monthly storage cost estimation: Estimated costs for disk storage after migration.
To view an assessment:
InServers, databases and web apps>Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment, select the number next toAzure VM assessment.
InAssessments, select an assessment to open it.
Review the assessment summary. You can also edit the assessment properties, or recalculate the assessment.The Azure readiness graph displays the status of the VM.The Supportability section displays the distribution by OS license support status and the distribution by Windows Server version.The Savings option section displays the estimated savings on moving to Azure.
The Azure readiness graph displays the status of the VM.
The Supportability section displays the distribution by OS license support status and the distribution by Windows Server version.
The Savings option section displays the estimated savings on moving to Azure.
Review readiness
SelectAzure readiness.
SelectAzure readiness.
InAzure readiness, review the VM status:Ready for Azure: Used when Azure Migrate recommends a VM size and cost estimates, for VMs in the assessment.Ready with conditions: Shows issues and suggested remediation.Not ready for Azure: Shows issues and suggested remediation.Readiness unknown: Used when Azure Migrate can't assess readiness, because of data availability issues.
InAzure readiness, review the VM status:
Ready for Azure: Used when Azure Migrate recommends a VM size and cost estimates, for VMs in the assessment.
Ready with conditions: Shows issues and suggested remediation.
Not ready for Azure: Shows issues and suggested remediation.
Readiness unknown: Used when Azure Migrate can't assess readiness, because of data availability issues.
Select anAzure readinessstatus. You can view VM readiness details. You can also drill down to see VM details, including compute, storage, and network settings.
Select anAzure readinessstatus. You can view VM readiness details. You can also drill down to see VM details, including compute, storage, and network settings.
Review cost estimates
The assessment summary shows the estimated compute and storage cost of running VMs in Azure.
Review the monthly total costs. Costs are aggregated for all VMs in the assessed group.Cost estimates are based on the size recommendations for a server, its disks, and its properties.Estimated monthly costs for compute and storage are shown.The cost estimation is for running the on-premises VMs on Azure VMs. The estimation doesn't consider PaaS or SaaS costs.
Review the monthly total costs. Costs are aggregated for all VMs in the assessed group.
Cost estimates are based on the size recommendations for a server, its disks, and its properties.
Estimated monthly costs for compute and storage are shown.
The cost estimation is for running the on-premises VMs on Azure VMs. The estimation doesn't consider PaaS or SaaS costs.
Review monthly storage costs. The view shows the aggregated storage costs for the assessed group, split over different types of storage disks.
Review monthly storage costs. The view shows the aggregated storage costs for the assessed group, split over different types of storage disks.
You can drill down to see cost details for specific VMs.
You can drill down to see cost details for specific VMs.
Review confidence rating
Azure Migrate assigns a confidence rating to performance-based assessments. Rating is from one star (lowest) to five stars (highest).

The confidence rating helps you estimate the reliability of  size recommendations in the assessment. The rating is based on the availability of data points needed to compute the assessment.
Note
Confidence ratings aren't assigned if you create an assessment based on a CSV file.
Confidence ratings are as follows.
Learn moreabout confidence ratings.
Review issues
In the Assessment report, you can see a list of errors if there are any issues faced by the assessment service for any VM. To troubleshoot the issues, selectDetailsin theIssuescolumn to view errors corresponding to a VM. A context pane will open with detailed information about the errors. Use this information to resolve the issues.

Next steps
Find server dependencies usingdependency mapping.
Set upagentlessoragent-baseddependency mapping.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources