Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How requests get matched to a route configuration
Article
2024-11-19
9 contributors
In this article
Aroutein Azure Front Door defines how traffic is handled when an incoming request arrives at the Azure Front Door edge. The route settings establish an association between a domain and an origin group. By using advanced features such asPattern to MatchandRule sets, you can have granular control over traffic to your backend resources.
Note
When you use theFront Door rule sets, you can configure a rule tooverride the origin groupfor a request. The origin group set by the rule set overrides the routing process described in this article.
Important
Azure Front Door (classic) will be retired onMarch 31, 2027. To avoid any service disruption, it's important that youmigrate your Azure Front Door (classic) profilesto Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier by March 2027. For more information, seeAzure Front Door (classic) retirement.
When a request arrives at the Azure Front Door (classic) edge, one of the first steps is to determine how to route the matching request to a backend resource and then take a defined action in the routing configuration. This document explains how Front Door determines which route configuration to use when processing a request.
Structure of a Front Door route configuration
A Front Door routing rule consists of two major parts: the "left-hand side" and the "right-hand side". Front Door matches the incoming request to the left-hand side of the route, while the right-hand side defines how the request is processed.
Incoming match (left-hand side)
The following properties determine whether the incoming request matches the routing rule (left-hand side):
HTTP Protocols- HTTP or HTTPS
Domain- For example: www.foo.com, *.bar.com
Paths- For example: /*, /users/*, /file.gif
These properties are expanded internally so that every combination of Protocol/Domain/Path is a potential match set.
Routing decision (right-hand side)
The decision on how to process the request depends on whether caching is enabled for the route. If a cached response isn't available, the request is forwarded to the appropriate origin.
Route matching
This section explains how Front Door matches requests to routing rules. The basic principle is that Front Door always matches to themost-specific requestby evaluating the "left-hand side" properties: protocol, domain, and path, in that order.
Frontend host matching
Azure Front Door uses the following steps to match frontend hosts:
Check for routes with an exact match on the frontend host.
If no exact match is found, the request is rejected with a 404: Bad Request error.
The following tables illustrate three different routing rules with their frontend hosts and paths:
The following table shows the matching results for the routing rules in the previous table:
Path matching
After Azure Front Door determine the specific frontend host and filtering possible routing rules, it selects the routing rules based on the request path. The following logic is used:
Check for routing rules with an exact match to the request path.
If no exact match is found, look for a routing rule with a wildcard path that matches.
If no matching path is found, the request is rejected with a 404: Bad Request error.
Note
The wildcard character*is only valid for paths that don't have any other characters after it. Additionally, the wildcard character*must be preceded by a slash/. Paths without a wildcard are considered exact-match paths. A path that ends in a slash/is also an exact-match path. Ensure that your paths follow these rules to avoid errors.
*
*
/
/
Note
Paths without a wildcard are considered exact-match paths. A path ending with a/is also an exact match.
/
Path patterns are case insensitive. For example,/FOOand/fooare treated as duplicates and are not allowed in the Patterns to match setting.
/FOO
/foo
The following table lists routing rules with their frontend host and path combinations:
The following table shows which routing rule matches an incoming request at the Azure Front Door edge:
Warning
If there are no routing rules for an exact-match frontend host without a catch-all route path (/*), no routing rule will be matched.
Example configuration:
Matching table:
Routing decision
Once Azure Front Door matches a routing rule, it decides how to process the request. If a cached response is available, it gets served back to the client.
If arule setis configured for the matched routing rule, it gets processed in order. Rule sets canoverride a routeby directing traffic to a specific origin group. If no rule set is defined, the request is forwarded to the origin group without changes.
If Azure Front Door (classic) doesn't have a cached response, it checks for aURL rewriteconfiguration. If no custom forwarding path is defined, the request is forwarded to the appropriate backend in the configured backend pool. If a custom forwarding path is defined, the request path is updated accordingly and then forwarded to the backend.
Next steps
Create an Azure Front Door.
Learn about theAzure Front Door routing architecture.
Create an Azure Front Door (classic).
Learn about theAzure Front Door routing architecture.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources