Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Orchestration using Databricks Jobs
Article
2025-02-19
2 contributors
In this article
Azure Databricks has built-in features for orchestrating data processing workloads so that you can coordinate and run multiple tasks as part of a larger workflow. You can optimize and schedule the execution of frequent, repeatable tasks and manage complex workflows.
This article introduces concepts and choices related to managing production workloads using Databricks jobs.
What are jobs?
In Databricks, a job is used to schedule and orchestrate tasks on Databricks in aworkflow. Common data processing workflows include ETL workflows, running notebooks, and machine learning (ML) workflows, as well as integrating with external systems like dbt and Azure Data Factory (ADF).
Jobs consist of one or more tasks, and support custom control flow logic like branching (if / else statements) or looping (for each statements) using a visual authoring UI. Tasks can load or transform data in an ETL workflow, or build, train and deploy ML models in a controlled and repeatable way as part of your machine learning pipelines.
Example: Daily data processing and validation job
The example below shows a job in Azure Databricks.

This example job has the following characteristics:
The first task ingests revenue data.
The second task is an if / else check for nulls.
If not, then a transformation task is run.
Otherwise, it runs a notebook task with a data quality validation.
It is scheduled to run every day at 11:29 AM.
To get a quick introduction to creating your own job, seeCreate your first workflow with an Azure Databricks job.
Common use cases
From foundational data engineering principles to advanced machine learning and seamless tool integration, these common use cases showcase the breadth of capabilities that drive modern analytics, workflow automation, and infrastructure scalability.
Orchestration concepts
There are three main concepts when using orchestration in Azure Databricks: jobs, tasks, and triggers.
Job- A job is the primary resource for coordinating, scheduling, and running your operations. Jobs can vary in complexity from a single task running a Azure Databricks notebook to hundreds of tasks with conditional logic and dependencies. The tasks in a job are visually represented by a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG). You can specify properties for the job, including:
Trigger - this defines when to run the job.
Parameters - run-time parameters that are automatically pushed to tasks within the job.
Notifications - emails or webhooks to be sent when a job fails or takes too long.
Git - source control settings for the job tasks.
Task- A task is a specific unit of work within a job. Each task can perform a variety of operations, including:
A notebook task runs a Databricks notebook. You specify the path to the notebook and any parameters that it requires.
A pipeline task runs a pipeline. You can specify an existing DLT pipeline, such as a materialized view or streaming table.
A Python script tasks runs a Python file. You provide the path to the file and any necessary parameters.
There are many types of tasks. For a complete list, seeTypes of tasks. Tasks can have dependencies on other tasks, and conditionally run other tasks, allowing you to create complex workflows with conditional logic and dependencies.
Trigger- A trigger is a mechanism that initiates running a job based on specific conditions or events. A trigger can be time-based, such as running a job at a scheduled time (for example, ever day at 2 AM), or event-based, such as running a job when new data arrives in cloud storage.
Monitoring and observability
Jobs provide built-in support for monitoring and observability. The following topics give an overview of this support. For more details about monitoring jobs and orchestration, seeMonitoring and observability for Databricks Jobs.
Job monitoring and observability in the UI- In the Azure Databricks UI you can view jobs, including details such as the job owner and the result of the last run, and filter by job properties. You can view a history of job runs, and get detailed information about each task in the job.
Job run status and metrics- Databricks reports job run success, and logs and metrics for each task within a job run to diagnose issues and understand performance.
Notifications and alerts- You can set up notifications for job events via email, Slack, custom webhooks and a host of other options.
Custom queries through system tables- Azure Databricks provides system tables that record job runs and tasks across the account. You can use these tables to query and analyze job performance and costs. You can create dashboards to visualize job metrics and trends, to help monitor the health and performance of your workflows.
Limitations
The following limitations exist:
A workspace is limited to 2000 concurrent task runs. A429 Too Many Requestsresponse is returned when you request a run that cannot start immediately.
429 Too Many Requests
The number of jobs a workspace can create in an hour is limited to 10000 (includes “runs submit”). This limit also affects jobs created by the REST API and notebook workflows.
A workspace can contain up to 12000 saved jobs.
A job can contain up to 1000 tasks.
Can I manage workflows programmatically?
Databricks has tools and APIs that allow you to schedule and orchestrate your workflows programmatically, including the following:
Databricks CLI
Databricks Asset Bundles
Databricks extension for Visual Studio Code
Databricks SDKs
Jobs REST API
For examples of using tools and APIs to create and manage jobs, seeAutomate job creation and management. For documentation on all available developer tools, seeLocal development tools.
External tools use the Databricks tools and APIs to programmatically schedule workflows. You can schedule your jobs using tools such as Azure Data Factory or Apache AirFlow.
Workflow orchestration with Apache AirFlow
You can useApache Airflowto manage and schedule your data workflows. With Airflow, you define your workflow in a Python file, and Airflow manages scheduling and running the workflow. SeeOrchestrate Azure Databricks jobs with Apache Airflow.
Workflow orchestration with Azure Data Factory
Azure Data Factory (ADF)is a cloud data integration service that lets you compose data storage, movement, and processing services into automated data pipelines. You can use ADF to orchestrate an Azure Databricks job as part of an ADF pipeline.
ADF also has built-in support to run Databricks notebooks, Python scripts, or code packaged in JARs in an ADF pipeline.
To learn how to run a Databricks notebook in an ADF pipeline, seeRun a Databricks notebook with the Databricks notebook activity in Azure Data Factory, followed byTransform data by running a Databricks notebook.
To learn how to run a Python script in an ADF pipeline, seeTransform data by running a Python activity in Azure Databricks.
To learn how to run code packaged in a JAR in an ADF pipeline, seeTransform data by running a JAR activity in Azure Databricks.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources