Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Choose a data analytics and reporting technology in Azure
Article
2023-03-14
20 contributors
In this article
The goal of most big data solutions is to provide insights into the data through analysis and reporting. This can include preconfigured reports and visualizations, or interactive data exploration.
What are your options when choosing a data analytics technology?
There are several options for analysis, visualizations, and reporting in Azure, depending on your needs:
Power BI
Jupyter Notebooks
Zeppelin Notebooks
Jupyter Notebooks in Visual Studio Code (VS Code)
Power BI
Power BIis a suite of business analytics tools. It can connect to hundreds of data sources, and can be used for ad hoc analysis. Seethis listof the currently available data sources. UsePower BI Embeddedto integrate Power BI within your own applications without requiring any additional licensing.
Organizations can use Power BI to produce reports and publish them to the organization. Everyone can create personalized dashboards, with governance andsecurity built in. Power BI usesMicrosoft Entra IDto authenticate users who sign in to the Power BI service, and uses the Power BI login credentials whenever a user attempts to access resources that require authentication.
Jupyter Notebooks
Jupyter Notebooksprovide a browser-based shell that lets data scientists createnotebookfiles that contain Python, Scala, or R code and markdown text, making it an effective way to collaborate by sharing and documenting code and results in a single document.
Most varieties of HDInsight clusters, such as Spark or Hadoop, comepreconfigured with Jupyter notebooksfor interacting with data and submitting jobs for processing. Depending on the type of HDInsight cluster you are using, one or more kernels will be provided for interpreting and running your code. For example, Spark clusters on HDInsight provide Spark-related kernels that you can select from to execute Python or Scala code using the Spark engine.
Jupyter notebooks provide a great environment for analyzing, visualizing, and processing your data prior to building more advanced visualizations with a BI/reporting tool like Power BI.
Zeppelin Notebooks
Zeppelin Notebooksare another option for a browser-based shell, similar to Jupyter in functionality. Some HDInsight clusters comepreconfigured with Zeppelin notebooks. However, if you are using anHDInsight Interactive Query(Hive LLAP) cluster,Zeppelinis currently your only choice of notebook that you can use to run interactive Hive queries. Also, if you are using adomain-joined HDInsight cluster, Zeppelin notebooks are the only type that enables you to assign different user logins to control access to notebooks and the underlying Hive tables.
Jupyter Notebooks in VS Code
VS Code is a free code editor and development platform that you can use locally or connected to remote compute. Combined with the Jupyter extension, it offers a full environment for Jupyter development that can be enhanced with additional language extensions. If you want a best-in-class, free Jupyter experience with the ability to use your compute of choice, this is a great option.
Using VS Code, you can develop and run notebooks against remotes and containers. To make the transition easier from Azure Notebooks, we have made the container image available so it can be used with VS Code too.
Jupyter (formerly IPython Notebook) is an open-source project that lets you easily combine Markdown text and executable Python source code on one canvas called a notebook. Visual Studio Code supports working with Jupyter Notebooks natively, and through Python code files.
Key selection criteria
To narrow the choices, start by answering these questions:
Do you need to connect to numerous data sources, providing a centralized place to create reports for data spread throughout your domain? If so, choose an option that allows you to connect to 100s of data sources.
Do you need to connect to numerous data sources, providing a centralized place to create reports for data spread throughout your domain? If so, choose an option that allows you to connect to 100s of data sources.
Do you want to embed dynamic visualizations in an external website or application? If so, choose an option that provides embedding capabilities.
Do you want to embed dynamic visualizations in an external website or application? If so, choose an option that provides embedding capabilities.
Do you want to design your visualizations and reports while offline? If yes, choose an option with offline capabilities.
Do you want to design your visualizations and reports while offline? If yes, choose an option with offline capabilities.
Do you need heavy processing power to train large or complex AI models or work with very large data sets? If yes, choose an option that can connect to a big data cluster.
Do you need heavy processing power to train large or complex AI models or work with very large data sets? If yes, choose an option that can connect to a big data cluster.
Capability matrix
The following tables summarize the key differences in capabilities.
General capabilities
[1] When used as part of a managed HDInsight cluster.
[2] With the use of Power BI Desktop.
[2] You can search theMaven repositoryfor community-contributed packages.
[3] Python packages can be installed using either pip or Conda. R packages can be installed from CRAN or GitHub. Packages in F# can be installed via nuget.org using thePaket dependency manager.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Zoiner Tejada| CEO and Architect
Next steps
Get started with Jupyter notebooks for Python
Notebooks
Run Azure Databricks Notebooks with Azure Data Factory
Run Jupyter notebooks in your workspace
What is Power BI?
Related resource
Technology choices for Azure solutions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources