Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitor Azure FXT Edge Filer hardware status
Article
2024-11-25
3 contributors
In this article
Note
Action Required:Azure FXT Edge Filer will be retired on December 31, 2026. Please remove all Azure FXT Edge Filer resources by December 31, 2026. Visithttps://aka.ms/fxtretirementfaqfor more information.
The Azure FXT Edge Filer hybrid storage cache system has multiple status lights built in to the chassis to help administrators understand how the hardware is functioning.
System health status
To monitor cache operations at a higher level, use the software Control Panel'sDashboardpage, as described in theControl Panel Dashboard Guide
Hardware status LEDs
This section explains the various status lights built in to the Azure FXT Edge Filer hardware.
Hard drive status LEDs

Each drive carrier has two status LEDs: an activity indicator (1) and a status indicator (2).
The activity LED (1) lights when the drive is in use.
The status LED (2) indicates the condition of the drive by using the codes in the table below.
The right side of the drive (3) is labeled with the drive's capacity and other information.
Drive numbers are printed on the space between drives. In the Azure FXT Edge Filer, drive 0 is the top left drive, and drive 1 is directly underneath it. Numbering continues in that pattern.

Left control panel
The left front control panel has various status LED indicators (1) and a large lighted system health indicator (2).

Control panel status indicators
The status indicators at left show a solid amber light if there is an error in that system. The table below describes possible causes and solutions for the errors.
If you still have the error after trying these solutions,contact supportfor help.
System health status indicator
The large lit button at the right of the left control panel indicates overall system status and also is used as a unit locator light in system ID mode.
Press the system health and ID button to switch between system ID mode and system health mode.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources