Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Observability in Azure Container Apps
Article
2024-05-02
8 contributors
In this article
Azure Container Apps provides several built-in observability features that together give you a holistic view of your container app’s health throughout its application lifecycle. These features help you monitor and diagnose the state of your app to improve performance and respond to trends and critical problems.
These features include:
Note
While not a built-in feature,Azure Monitor Application Insightsis a powerful tool to monitor your web and background applications. Although Container Apps doesn't support the Application Insights auto-instrumentation agent, you can instrument your application code using Application Insights SDKs.
Application lifecycle observability
With Container Apps observability features, you can monitor your app throughout the development-to-production lifecycle. The following sections describe the most effective monitoring features for each phase.
Development and test
During the development and test phase, real-time access to your containers' application logs and console is critical for debugging issues. Container Apps provides:
Log streaming: View real-time log streams from your containers.
Container console: Access the container console to debug your application.
Deployment
Once you deploy your container app, continuous monitoring helps you quickly identify problems that occur around error rates, performance, and resource consumption.
Azure Monitor gives you the ability to track your app with the following features:
Azure Monitor metrics: Monitor and analyze key metrics.
Azure Monitor alerts: Receive alerts for critical conditions.
Azure Monitor Log Analytics: View and analyze application logs.
Maintenance
Container Apps manages updates to your container app by creatingrevisions. You can run multiple revisions concurrently in blue green deployments or to perform A/B testing. These observability features help you monitor your app across revisions:
Azure Monitor metrics: Monitor and compare key metrics for multiple revisions.
Azure Monitor alerts: Receive individual alerts per revision.
Azure Monitor Log Analytics: View, analyze, and compare log data for multiple revisions.
Next steps
Health probes in Azure Container Apps
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources