Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Hyperscale service tier
Article
2025-02-10
42 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Database is based on SQL Server Database Engine architecture that is adjusted for the cloud environment to ensurehigh availabilityeven in cases of infrastructure failures. There are three service tier choices in the vCore purchasing model for Azure SQL Database:
General Purpose
Business Critical
Hyperscale
The Hyperscale service tier is suitable for all workload types. Its cloud-native architecture provides independently scalable compute and storage to support the widest variety of traditional and modern applications. Compute and storage resources in Hyperscale substantially exceed the resources available in the General Purpose and Business Critical tiers.
For details on the General Purpose and Business Critical service tiers in the vCore-based purchasing model, seeGeneral PurposeandBusiness Criticalservice tiers. For a comparison of the vCore-based purchasing model with the DTU-based purchasing model, seeCompare vCore and DTU-based purchasing models of Azure SQL Database.
The Hyperscale service tier is currently only available for Azure SQL Database, and not for Azure SQL Managed Instance.
What are the Hyperscale capabilities
The Hyperscale service tier in Azure SQL Database provides the following additional capabilities:
Rapid scale up - you can, in constant time, scale up your compute resources to accommodate heavy workloads when needed, and then scale the compute resources back down when not needed.
Rapid scale out - you can provision one or moreread-only replicasfor offloading your read workload and for use as hot-standbys.
Automatic scale-up, scale-down, and billing for compute based on usage withserverless compute.
Optimized price/performance for a group of Hyperscale databases with varying resource demands withelastic pools.
Autoscaling storage with support for up to 128 TB of database or 100 TB elastic pool size.
Higher overall performance due to higher transaction log throughput and faster transaction commit times regardless of data volumes.
Fast database backups (based on file snapshots) regardless of size with no I/O impact on compute resources.
Fast database restores or copies (based on file snapshots) in minutes rather than hours or days.
The Hyperscale service tier removes many of the practical limits traditionally seen in cloud databases. Where most other databases are limited by the resources available in a single node, databases in the Hyperscale service tier have no such limits. With its flexible storage architecture, storage grows as needed. In fact, Hyperscale databases aren't created with a defined max size. A Hyperscale database grows as needed - and you're billed only for the storage capacity allocated. For read-intensive workloads, the Hyperscale service tier provides rapid scale-out by provisioning additional replicas as needed for offloading read workloads.
Additionally, the time required to create database backups or to scale up or down is no longer tied to the volume of data in the database. Hyperscale databases are backed up virtually instantaneously. You can also scale a database in the tens of terabytes up or down within minutes in the provisioned compute tier or useserverlessto scale compute automatically. This capability frees you from concerns about being boxed in by your initial configuration choices.
For more information about the compute sizes for the Hyperscale service tier, seeService tier characteristics.
Who should consider the Hyperscale service tier
The Hyperscale service tier is intended for all customers who require higher performance and availability, fast backup and restore, and/or fast storage and compute scalability. This includes customers who are moving to the cloud to modernize their applications and customers who are already using other service tiers in Azure SQL Database. The Hyperscale service tier supports a broad range of database workloads, from pure OLTP to pure analytics. It's optimized for OLTP and hybrid transaction and analytical processing (HTAP) workloads.
Hyperscale pricing model
Note
Simplified pricing for Azure SQL Database Hyperscale has arrived! Review thenew pricing tier for Azure SQL Database Hyperscale announcement, and for pricing change details, seeAzure SQL Database Hyperscale – lower, simplified pricing!.
Hyperscale service tier is only available invCore model. To align with the new architecture, the pricing model is slightly different from General Purpose or Business Critical service tiers:
Provisioned compute:The Hyperscale compute unit price is per replica. Users might adjust the total number of high-availability secondary replicas from 0 to 4, depending on availability and scalability requirements, and create up to 30 named replicas to support various read scale-out workloads.
Provisioned compute:
The Hyperscale compute unit price is per replica. Users might adjust the total number of high-availability secondary replicas from 0 to 4, depending on availability and scalability requirements, and create up to 30 named replicas to support various read scale-out workloads.
Serverless compute:Serverless compute billing is based on usage. For more information, seeServerless compute tier for Azure SQL Database.
Serverless compute:
Serverless compute billing is based on usage. For more information, seeServerless compute tier for Azure SQL Database.
Storage:You don't need to specify the max data size when configuring a Hyperscale database. In the Hyperscale tier, you're charged for storage for your database based on actual allocation. Storage is automatically allocated between 10 GB and 128 TB and grows in 10 GB increments as needed.
Storage:
You don't need to specify the max data size when configuring a Hyperscale database. In the Hyperscale tier, you're charged for storage for your database based on actual allocation. Storage is automatically allocated between 10 GB and 128 TB and grows in 10 GB increments as needed.
For more information about Hyperscale pricing, seeAzure SQL Database Pricing.
Distributed functions architecture
Hyperscale separates the query processing engine from the components that provide long-term storage and durability for the data. This architecture allows you to smoothly scale storage capacity as far as needed (up to 128 TB), and the ability to scale compute resources rapidly.
The following diagram illustrates the functional Hyperscale architecture:

Learn more about theHyperscale distributed functions architecture.
Scale and performance advantages
With the ability to rapidly spin up/down additional read-only compute nodes, the Hyperscale architecture allows significant read scale capabilities and can also free up the primary compute node for serving more write requests. Also, the compute nodes can be scaled up/down rapidly due to the shared-storage architecture of the Hyperscale architecture. Read-only compute nodes in Hyperscale are also available in theserverless compute tier, which automatically scales compute based on workload demand.
Database high availability in Hyperscale
As in all other service tiers, Hyperscale guarantees data durability for committed transactions regardless of compute replica availability. The extent of downtime due to the primary replica becoming unavailable depends on the type of failover (planned vs. unplanned),whether zone redundancy is configured, and on the presence of at least one high-availability replica. In a planned failover (such as a maintenance event), the system either creates the new primary replica before initiating a failover, or uses an existing high-availability replica as the failover target. In an unplanned failover (such as a hardware failure on the primary replica), the system uses a high-availability replica as a failover target if one exists, or creates a new primary replica from the pool of available compute capacity. In the latter case, downtime duration is longer due to extra steps required to create the new primary replica.
You canchoose a maintenance windowthat allows you to make impactful maintenance events predictable and less disruptive for your workload.
For Hyperscale SLA, seeSLA for Azure SQL Database.
Buffer pool, resilient buffer pool extension, and continuous priming
In Azure Database Hyperscale, there is a distinct separation between compute and storage. Storage contains all the database pages in one database, and can be allocated over multiple machines as the database grows. The compute node, however, only caches what is being used recently. The hottest pages in compute are maintained in memory in a structure called buffer pool (BP). It is also stored in the local SSD, the resilient buffer pool extension (RBPEX), so data can be retrieved faster in case the compute process restarts.
In a cloud system, compute can move to different machines as needed. The compute layer can have multiple replicas. One is primary, and receives all updates, while others are secondary replicas. In the event of a primary failure, one of the high availability secondary replicas can quickly be promoted to primary in a process called failover. The secondary replica might not have a cache in its BP and RBPEX that is optimized for the primary workload.
Continuous priming is a process that collects information about which pages are the hottest in all compute replicas. That information is aggregated, and high availability secondary replicas use the list of hottest pages which correspond to the typical customer workload. This fills both the BP and RBPEX with the hottest pages, continuously, to keep up with changes in the customer workload.
Without continuous priming, both BP and RBPEX are not inherited by new high availability  replicas, and only be reconstructed during the user workload. Continuous priming saves time and prevents inconsistent performance, as there is no wait before the caches are fully hydrated again. With continuous priming, new high availability secondary replicas will immediately start priming their BP and RBPEX. This will help maintain performance more consistently as failovers happen.
Continuous priming works both ways: high availability secondary replicas will cache pages being used in the primary replica, and the primary will cache pages with the workload from the secondary replicas.
Note
Continuous priming is currently in a gated preview and is not available for serverless databases. For more information and to opt-in to continuous priming, seeBlog: November 2024 Hyperscale enhancements.
Back up and restore
Back up and restore operations for Hyperscale databases are file-snapshot based. This enables these operations to be nearly instantaneous. Since Hyperscale architecture utilizes the storage layer for backup and restore, the processing burden and performance impact to compute replicas are reduced. Learn more inHyperscale backups and storage redundancy.
Disaster recovery for Hyperscale databases
If you need to restore a Hyperscale database in Azure SQL Database to a region other than the one it's currently hosted in, as part of a disaster recovery operation or drill, relocation, or any other reason, the primary method is to do ageo-restoreof the database. Geo-restore is only available when geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS) has been chosen for storage redundancy.
Learn more inrestoring a Hyperscale database to a different region.
Compare resource limits
The vCore-based service tiers are differentiated based on database availability, storage type, performance, and maximum storage size. These differences are described in the following table:
1Simplified pricing for SQL Database Hyperscale arrived in December 2023. Review theHyperscale pricing blogfor details.
2As of December 2023, Azure Hybrid Benefit isn't available for new Hyperscale databases, or in dev/test subscriptions. Existing Hyperscale single databases with provisioned compute can continue to use Azure Hybrid Benefit to save on compute costs until December 2026. For more information, review theHyperscale pricing blog.
Compute resources
1In thesys.dm_user_db_resource_governancedynamic management view, hardware generation for databases using Intel® SP-8160 (Skylake) processors appears as Gen6, hardware generation for databases using Intel® 8272CL (Cascade Lake) appears as Gen7, and hardware generation for databases using Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) or AMD® EPYC® 7763v (Milan) appear as Gen8. For a given compute size and hardware configuration, resource limits are the same regardless of CPU type. For more information, see resource limits forsingle databasesandelastic pools.
Serverless is only supported on Standard-series (Gen5) hardware.
Create and manage Hyperscale databases
You can create and manage Hyperscale databases using the Azure portal, Transact-SQL, PowerShell, and the Azure CLI. For more information, seeQuickstart: Create a Hyperscale database.

Limitations
These are the current limitations of the Hyperscale service tier. We're actively working to remove as many of these limitations as possible.
Related content
Frequently asked questions about Hyperscale
Compare vCore and DTU-based purchasing models of Azure SQL Database
Resource management in Azure SQL Database
Resource limits for single databases using the vCore purchasing model
Features comparison: Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance
Hyperscale distributed functions architecture
How to manage a Hyperscale database
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources