Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Suppress alerts from Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Article
2025-03-04
9 contributors
In this article
This page explains how you can use alerts suppression rules to suppress false positives or other unwanted security alerts from Defender for Cloud.
Availability
What are suppression rules?
The Microsoft Defender plans detect threats in your environment and generate security alerts. When a single alert isn't interesting or relevant, you can manually dismiss it. Suppression rules let you automatically dismiss similar alerts in the future.
Just like when you identify an email as spam, you want to review your suppressed alerts periodically to make sure you're not missing any real threats.
Some examples of how to use suppression rule are:
Suppress alerts that you've identified as false positives
Suppress alerts that are being triggered too often to be useful

Create a suppression rule
You can apply suppression rules to management groups or to subscriptions.
To suppress alerts for a management group, useAzure Policy.
To suppress alerts for subscriptions, use the Azure portal or theREST API.
Alert types that were never triggered on a subscription or management group before the rule was created won't be suppressed.
To create a rule for a specific alert in the Azure portal:
From Defender for Cloud's security alerts page, select the alert you want to suppress.
From Defender for Cloud's security alerts page, select the alert you want to suppress.
From the details pane, selectTake action.
From the details pane, selectTake action.
In theSuppress similar alertssection of the Take action tab, selectCreate suppression rule.
In theSuppress similar alertssection of the Take action tab, selectCreate suppression rule.
In theNew suppression rulepane, enter the details of your new rule.Entities- The resources that the rule applies to. You can specify a single resource, multiple resources, or resources that contain a partial resource ID. If you don't specify any resources, the rule applies to all resources in the subscription.Name- A name for the rule. Rule names must begin with a letter or a number, be between 2 and 50 characters, and contain no symbols other than dashes (-) or underscores (_).State- Enabled or disabled.Reason- Select one of the built-in reasons or 'other' to specify your own reason in the comment.Expiration date- An end date and time for the rule. Rules can run for without any time limit as set in Expiration date.
In theNew suppression rulepane, enter the details of your new rule.
Entities- The resources that the rule applies to. You can specify a single resource, multiple resources, or resources that contain a partial resource ID. If you don't specify any resources, the rule applies to all resources in the subscription.
Name- A name for the rule. Rule names must begin with a letter or a number, be between 2 and 50 characters, and contain no symbols other than dashes (-) or underscores (_).
State- Enabled or disabled.
Reason- Select one of the built-in reasons or 'other' to specify your own reason in the comment.
Expiration date- An end date and time for the rule. Rules can run for without any time limit as set in Expiration date.
You selectSimulateto see the number of previously received alerts that would have been dismissed if the rule was active.
You selectSimulateto see the number of previously received alerts that would have been dismissed if the rule was active.
Save the rule.
Save the rule.
You can also select theSuppression rulesbutton in the Security Alerts page and selectCreate suppression ruleto enter the details of your new rule.

Note
For some alerts, suppression rules are not applicable for certain entities. If the rule is not available, a message will display at the end of theCreate a suppression ruleprocess.
Edit a suppression rule
To edit a rule you've created from the suppression rules page:
From Defender for Cloud's security alerts page, selectSuppression rulesat the top of the page.
From Defender for Cloud's security alerts page, selectSuppression rulesat the top of the page.

The suppression rules page opens with all the rules for the selected subscriptions.
The suppression rules page opens with all the rules for the selected subscriptions.

To edit a single rule, open the three dots (...) at the end of the rule and selectEdit.
To edit a single rule, open the three dots (...) at the end of the rule and selectEdit.
Change the details of the rule and selectApply.
Change the details of the rule and selectApply.
To delete a rule, use the same three dots menu and selectRemove.
Create and manage suppression rules with the API
You can create, view, or delete alert suppression rules using the Defender for Cloud REST API.
A suppression rule can be created for an alert that has already been triggered. Use theAlerts REST APIto retrieve the alert that you want to suppress, then create a suppression rule with theAlerts Suppression Rules REST API, using the retrieved alert information.
The relevant methods for suppression rules in theAlerts Suppression Rules REST APIare:
UPDATE:To create or update a suppression rule in a specified subscription.
UPDATE:
To create or update a suppression rule in a specified subscription.
GET:To get the details of a specific suppression rule on a specified subscription. This method returns one suppression rule.
GET:
To get the details of a specific suppression rule on a specified subscription. This method returns one suppression rule.
LIST:To list all suppression rules configured for a specified subscription. This method returns an array of the applicable rules.
LIST:
To list all suppression rules configured for a specified subscription. This method returns an array of the applicable rules.
DELETE:Deletes an existing suppression rule (but doesn't change the status of alerts already dismissed by it).
DELETE:
Deletes an existing suppression rule (but doesn't change the status of alerts already dismissed by it).
For details and usage examples, see theAPI documentation.
Next step
This article described the suppression rules in Microsoft Defender for Cloud that automatically dismiss unwanted alerts.
Learn more aboutsecurity alerts generated by Defender for Cloud.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources