Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)
Article
2024-11-21
20 contributors
In this article
The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) enables developers to acquiresecurity tokensfrom the Microsoft identity platform to authenticate users and access secured web APIs. It can be used to provide secure access to Microsoft Graph, other Microsoft APIs, third-party web APIs, or your own web API. MSAL supports many different application architectures and platforms including .NET, JavaScript, Java, Python, Android, and iOS.
MSAL provides multiple ways to get security tokens, with a consistent API for many platforms. Using MSAL provides the following benefits:
There's no need to directly use the OAuth libraries or code against the protocol in your application.
Can acquire tokens on behalf of a user or application (when applicable to the platform).
Maintains a token cache for you and handles token refreshes when they're close to expiring.
Helps you specify which audience you want your application to sign in. The sign in audience can include personal Microsoft accounts, social identities with Azure AD B2C organizations, work, school, or users in sovereign and national clouds.
Helps you set up your application from configuration files.
Helps you troubleshoot your app by exposing actionable exceptions, logging, and telemetry.
MSAL Languages and Frameworks
You can refer to the following documentation to learn more about the different MSAL libraries.
Important
Active Directory Authentication Library (ADAL) has ended support. Customers need to ensure their applications are migrated to MSAL. MSAL integrates with the Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint, which is the unification of Microsoft personal accounts and work accounts into a single authentication system. ADAL integrates with a v1.0 endpoint which doesn't support personal accounts.
Related content
Migrate applications to the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources