Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Landing zone implementation options
Article
2025-01-21
26 contributors
In this article
Important
The Azure landing zonesImplementation optionssection of the Cloud Adoption Framework is undergoing a freshness update.
As part of this update, we will be revising the table of contents and article content, which will include a combination of refactoring and consolidation of several articles. An update will be posted on this page once the work is completed.
Visit the new"Deployment options" section of the Azure Architecture Centerfor the latest Azure landing zone implementation content, including platform and application landing zones.
AnAzure landing zoneprovides cloud adoption teams with a well-managed environment to run their workloads. Take advantage of the best practices described inlanding zone design areasto build a strong foundation. You can then extend the foundation by implementing processes related to security, governance, and compliance.
Environment development approaches
There are two primary approaches. The choice will depend on how fast your teams can develop the required skills.
Start with the Azure landing zone accelerator:If your business requirements call for a rich initial implementation of landing zones with fully integrated governance, security, and operations from the start. If you need to, you can modify using Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) to set up and configure an environment per your requirements. For IaC, your organization will require skills in Azure Resource Manager templates and GitHub.
Start with the Azure landing zone accelerator:If your business requirements call for a rich initial implementation of landing zones with fully integrated governance, security, and operations from the start. If you need to, you can modify using Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) to set up and configure an environment per your requirements. For IaC, your organization will require skills in Azure Resource Manager templates and GitHub.
Customize:If it's more important to build your environment to meet specific requirements, or develop internal skills. In this approach, focus on the basic landing zones considerations required to start cloud adoption. All technical and business requirements are considered complete when your environment configuration aligns with Azure landing zone conceptual architecture. You can then focus on enhancing your landing zone.
Customize:If it's more important to build your environment to meet specific requirements, or develop internal skills. In this approach, focus on the basic landing zones considerations required to start cloud adoption. All technical and business requirements are considered complete when your environment configuration aligns with Azure landing zone conceptual architecture. You can then focus on enhancing your landing zone.
Important
Of the two approaches, the Azure landing zone accelerator is recommended because it's the quickest way to achieve a scaled-out and mature environment.

Beside the use of the Azure landing zone accelerator, there are use cases where organizations have specific business or technical requirements. For those cases, some customization might be needed.
To address the customization use cases, consider theimplementation optionsgiven in this article. The options are intended for users with strong skills in technologies such as Azure Resource Manager, Azure Policy, DevOps tools, and third-party deployment tools. Those technologies are required for a solid foundation on which to build a landing zone.
Caution
The best practices used for customization will ultimately be aligned with theAzure landing zone. However, there's added investment in time and effort which might be justified to fit specific business requirements.
Finally, guidance in theGovernandManagemethodologies will build on top of your initial landing zones. The design of any Azure landing zone outline will likely require refactoring over time.
Implementation options
Here are some implementation options for landing zones keeping in mind the development approaches described above. Each implementation option in this table is designed for a specific set of operating model dependencies to support your organizations nonfunctional requirements. Every option includes distinct automation approaches and tools. Even though each option is mapped to a different operating model, they have common design areas. The difference is how you choose to implement them and the level of technical experience required.
Azure landing zone accelerator approach
Customize approach
Next steps
To proceed, choose one of the implementation options shown in the preceding tables. Each option includes a link to deployment instructions and the specific design principles that guide implementation.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources