Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) STAR Self-Assessment
Article
2022-12-07
1 contributor
In this article
CSA STAR Self-Assessment overview
TheCloud Security Alliance (CSA)is a nonprofit organization led by a broad coalition of industry practitioners, corporations, and other important stakeholders. It's dedicated to defining best practices to help ensure a more secure cloud computing environment, and to helping potential cloud customers make informed decisions when transitioning their IT operations to the cloud. In 2013, the CSA and the British Standards Institution launched theSecurity, Trust, Assurance, and Risk (STAR)registry, a free, publicly accessible registry in which cloud service providers (CSPs) can publish their CSA-related assessments.
For security assessments, CSPs use theCloud Controls Matrix (CCM)to evaluate and document their security controls. CCM is a controls framework composed of 197 control objectives covering fundamental security principles across 17 domains to help cloud customers assess the overall security risk of a CSP.
CSPs can submit theConsensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)to document compliance with the CCM. The CAIQ contains more than 250 questions based on the CCM that a customer or cloud auditor may want to ask of CSPs to assess their compliance with CSA best practices.
STAR providestwo levels of assurance:
Level 1:Self-Assessment using the CAIQ
Level 2:Independent third-party certifications such as CSA STAR Certification and CSA STAR Attestation
For the CSA STAR Self-Assessment, Microsoft publishes CAIQ-based assessments for Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365.
Note
CSA has releasedCCM v4, a major update to the CCM that has 197 control objectives structured in 17 domains. CCM and CAIQ have been combined in version 4. The Azure CSA STAR Self-Assessment has been updated to use the newCAIQ v4.CSA has also provided aCCM v4 transition timelinefor cloud service providers and other organizations to start using version 4.
Audit reports and certificates
To download Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365 CSA STAR Self-Assessments, see theCSA STAR registry for Microsoft.
Frequently asked questions
Which industry standards does the CSA CCM align with?The CCM maps to industry-accepted security standards, regulations, and control frameworks such as ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, NIST SP 800-53, PCI DSS, AICPA Trust Services Criteria, and others. For the most current list, visit theCSA website.
Why is the CSA STAR Self-Assessment important?It enables CSPs to document compliance with CSA published best practices in a transparent manner. Self-assessment reports are publicly available, thereby helping cloud customers gain visibility into the security practices of CSPs, and compare various CSPs using the same baseline.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)
CSACloud Controls Matrix (CCM)
CSAConsensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)
CSASecurity, Trust, Assurance, and Risk (STAR) registry
Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365 CAIQ reports
Additional resources