Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Migrate from QnA Maker to custom question answering
Article
2024-11-21
2 contributors
In this article
Purpose of this document:This article aims to provide information that can be used to successfully migrate applications that use QnA Maker to custom question answering. Using this article, we hope customers gain clarity on the following:
Comparison of features across QnA Maker and custom question answering
Pricing
Simplified Provisioning and Development Experience
Migration phases
Common migration scenarios
Migration steps
Intended Audience:Existing QnA Maker customers
Important
Custom question Answering, a feature of Azure AI Language was introduced in November 2021 with several new capabilities including enhanced relevance using a deep learning ranker, precise answers, and end-to-end region support. Each custom question answering project is equivalent to a knowledge base in QnA Maker. Resource level settings such as Role-based access control (RBAC) aren't migrated to the new resource. These resource level settings would have to be reconfigured for the language resource post migration:
Automatic RBAC to Language project (not resource)
Automatic enabling of analytics.
You'll also need tore-enable analyticsfor the language resource.
Comparison of features
In addition to a new set of features, custom question answering provides many technical improvements to common features.
Pricing
When you're looking at migrating to custom question answering, consider the following:
Users may select a higher tier with higher capacity, which will impact overall price they pay. It doesn’t impact the price on language component of custom question answering.
Users may select a higher tier with higher capacity, which will impact overall price they pay. It doesn’t impact the price on language component of custom question answering.
"Text Records" in custom question answering features refers to the query submitted by the user to the runtime, and it's a concept common to all features within Language service. Sometimes a query may have more text records when the query length is higher.
"Text Records" in custom question answering features refers to the query submitted by the user to the runtime, and it's a concept common to all features within Language service. Sometimes a query may have more text records when the query length is higher.
Example price estimations
Summary: Customers should save cost across the most common configurations as seen in the relative cost column.
Here you can find the pricing details forcustom question answeringandQnA Maker.
TheAzure pricing calculatorcan provide even more detail.
Simplified Provisioning and Development Experience
With the Language service, QnA Maker customers now benefit from a single service that provides Text Analytics, LUIS, and custom question answering as features of the language resource. The Language service provides:
One Language resource to access all above capabilities
A single pane of authoring experience across capabilities
A unified set of APIs across all the capabilities
A cohesive, simpler, and powerful product
Migration Phases
If you or your organization have applications in development or production that use QnA Maker, you should update them to use custom question answering as soon as possible. See the following links for available APIs, SDKs, Bot SDKs, and code samples.
Following are the broad migration phases to consider:

More links that can help:
Authoring portal
API
SDK
Bot SDK: For bots to use custom question answering, use theBot.Builder.AI.QnASDK – We recommend customers to continue to use this for their Bot integrations. Here are some sample usages of the same in the bot’s code:Sample 1Sample 2
Common migration scenarios
This topic compares two hypothetical scenarios when migrating from QnA Maker to custom question answering. These scenarios can help you to determine the right set of migration steps to execute for the given scenario.
Note
An attempt has been made to ensure these scenarios are representative of real customer migrations, however, individual customer scenarios differ. Also, this article doesn't include pricing details. Visit thepricingpage for more information.
Important
Each custom question answering project is equivalent to a knowledge base in QnA Maker. Resource level settings such as Role-based access control (RBAC) aren't migrated to the new resource. These resource level settings would have to be reconfigured for the language resource post migration. You'll also need tore-enable analyticsfor the language resource.
Migration scenario 1: No custom authoring portal
In the first migration scenario, the customer uses qnamaker.ai as the authoring portal and they want to migrate their QnA Maker knowledge bases to custom question answering.
Migrate your project from QnA Maker to custom question answering
Once migrated to custom question answering:
The resource level settings need to be reconfigured for the language resource
Customer validations should start on the migrated knowledge bases on:Size validationNumber of QnA pairs in all KBs to match pre and post migration
Size validation
Number of QnA pairs in all KBs to match pre and post migration
Customers need to establish new thresholds for their knowledge bases in custom question answering as the Confidence score mapping is different when compared to QnA Maker.Answers for sample questions in pre and post migrationResponse time for Questions answered in v1 vs v2Retaining of promptsCustomers can use the batch testing tool post migration to test the newly created project in custom question answering.
Answers for sample questions in pre and post migration
Response time for Questions answered in v1 vs v2
Retaining of prompts
Customers can use the batch testing tool post migration to test the newly created project in custom question answering.
Old QnA Maker resources need to be manually deleted.
Here are somedetailed stepson migration scenario 1.
Migration scenario 2
In this migration scenario, the customer may have created their own authoring frontend using the QnA Maker authoring APIs or QnA Maker SDKs.
They should perform these steps required for migration of SDKs:
ThisSDK Migration Guideis intended to help the migration to the new custom question answering client library,Azure.AI.Language.QuestionAnswering, from the old one,Microsoft.Azure.CognitiveServices.Knowledge.QnAMaker. It will focus on side-by-side comparisons for similar operations between the two packages.
They should perform the steps required for migration of Knowledge bases to the new Project within Language resource.
Once migrated to custom question answering:
The resource level settings need to be reconfigured for the language resource
Customer validations should start on the migrated knowledge bases onSize validationNumber of QnA pairs in all KBs to match pre and post migrationConfidence score mappingAnswers for sample questions in pre and post migrationResponse time for Questions answered in v1 vs v2Retaining of promptsBatch testing pre and post migration
Size validation
Number of QnA pairs in all KBs to match pre and post migration
Confidence score mapping
Answers for sample questions in pre and post migration
Response time for Questions answered in v1 vs v2
Retaining of prompts
Batch testing pre and post migration
Old QnA Maker resources need to be manually deleted.
Additionally, for customers who have to migrate and upgrade Bot, upgrade bot code is published as NuGet package.
Here you can find some code samples:Sample 1Sample 2
Here aredetailed steps on migration scenario 2
Learn more about theprebuilt API
Learn more about thecustom question answering Get Answers REST API
Migration steps
Note that some of these steps are needed depending on the customers existing architecture. Kindly look at migration phases given above for getting more clarity on which steps are needed by you for migration.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources