Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Firewall performance
Article
2024-12-26
4 contributors
In this article
Reliable firewall performance is essential to operate and protect your virtual networks in Azure. More advanced features (like those found in Azure Firewall Premium) require more processing complexity, and affect firewall performance and overall network performance.
Azure Firewall has three versions: Basic, Standard, and Premium.
Azure Firewall BasicAzure Firewall Basic is intended for small and medium size (SMB) customers to secure their Azure cloud environments. It provides the essential protection SMB customers need at an affordable price point.
Azure Firewall Basic
Azure Firewall Basic is intended for small and medium size (SMB) customers to secure their Azure cloud environments. It provides the essential protection SMB customers need at an affordable price point.
Azure Firewall StandardAzure Firewall Standard became generally available in September 2018. It's cloud native, highly available, with built-in auto scaling firewall-as-a-service. You can centrally govern and log all your traffic flows using a DevOps approach. The service supports both application and network level-filtering rules, and is integrated with the Microsoft Threat Intelligence feed for filtering known malicious IP addresses and domains.
Azure Firewall Standard
Azure Firewall Standard became generally available in September 2018. It's cloud native, highly available, with built-in auto scaling firewall-as-a-service. You can centrally govern and log all your traffic flows using a DevOps approach. The service supports both application and network level-filtering rules, and is integrated with the Microsoft Threat Intelligence feed for filtering known malicious IP addresses and domains.
Azure Firewall PremiumAzure Firewall Premium is a next generation firewall. It has capabilities that are required for highly sensitive and regulated environments. The features that might affect the performance of the Firewall are TLS (Transport Layer Security) inspection and IDPS (Intrusion Detection and Prevention).
Azure Firewall Premium
Azure Firewall Premium is a next generation firewall. It has capabilities that are required for highly sensitive and regulated environments. The features that might affect the performance of the Firewall are TLS (Transport Layer Security) inspection and IDPS (Intrusion Detection and Prevention).
For more information about Azure Firewall, seeWhat is Azure Firewall?
Performance testing
Before you deploy Azure Firewall, the performance needs to be tested and evaluated to ensure it meets your expectations. Not only should Azure Firewall handle the current traffic on a network, but it should also be ready for potential traffic growth. You should evaluate on a test network and not in a production environment. The testing should attempt to replicate the production environment as close as possible. You should account for the network topology, and emulate the actual characteristics of the expected traffic through the firewall.
Performance data
The following set of performance results demonstrates the maximal Azure Firewall throughput in various use cases. All use cases were measured while Threat intelligence mode was set to alert/deny. Azure Firewall Premium performance boost feature is enabled on all Azure Firewall premium deployments by default.  This feature includes enabling Accelerated Networking on the underlying firewall virtual machines.
Throughput for single connections
Total throughput  for initial firewall deployment
The following throughput numbers are for an Azure Firewall Standard and Premium deployments before autoscale (out of the box deployment). Azure Firewall gradually scales out when the average throughput and CPU consumption is at 60% or if the number of connections usage is at 80%. Scale out takes five to seven minutes. Azure Firewall gradually scales in when the average throughput, CPU consumption, or number of connections is below 20%.
When performance testing, make sure you test for at least 10 to 15 minutes, and start new connections to take advantage of newly created firewall nodes.
Note
Azure Firewall Basic doesn't autoscale.
Next step
deploy and configure an Azure Firewall
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources