Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data formats supported by Azure Data Explorer for ingestion
Article
2024-06-10
11 contributors
In this article
Data ingestion is the process by which data is added to a table and is made available for query in Azure Data Explorer. For all ingestion methods, other than ingest-from-query, the data must be in one of the supported formats. The following table lists and describes the formats that Azure Data Explorer supports for data ingestion.
Note
Before you ingest data, make sure that your data is properly formatted and defines the expected fields. We recommend using your preferred validator to confirm the format is valid. For example, you may find the following validators useful to check CSV or JSON files:
CSV:http://csvlint.io/
JSON:https://jsonlint.com/
For more information about why ingestion might fail, seeIngestion failuresandIngestion error codes in Azure Data Explorer.
.avro
null
deflate
snappy
apacheavro
.avro
null
deflate
snappy
ApacheAvro
.csv
,
.json
\n
\r\n
.multijson
\n
\r\n
.orc
.parquet
.psv
|
.raw
.scsv
;
.sohsv
.tsv
\t
.tsv
\t
\
.txt
\n
.log
Note
Ingestion from data storage systems that provide ACID functionality on top of regular Parquet format files (e.g. Apache Iceberg, Apache Hudi, Delta Lake) is not supported.
Ingestion from data storage systems that provide ACID functionality on top of regular Parquet format files (e.g. Apache Iceberg, Apache Hudi, Delta Lake) is not supported.
Schema-less Avro is not supported.
Schema-less Avro is not supported.
For more info on ingesting data usingjsonormultijsonformats, please refer tothis document.
For more info on ingesting data usingjsonormultijsonformats, please refer tothis document.
json
multijson
Supported data compression formats
Blobs and files can be compressed through any of the following compression algorithms:
Indicate compression by appending the extension to the name of the blob or file.
For example:
MyData.csv.zipindicates a blob or a file formatted as CSV, compressed with zip (archive or a single file)
MyData.csv.zip
MyData.json.gzindicates a blob or a file formatted as JSON, compressed with gGzip.
MyData.json.gz
Blob or file names that don't include the format extensions but just compression (for example,MyData.zip) is also supported. In this case, the file format
must be specified as an ingestion property because it cannot be inferred.
MyData.zip
Note
Some compression formats keep track of the original file extension as part of the compressed stream. This extension is generally ignored for determining the file format. If the file format can't be determined from the (compressed) blob or file name, it must be specified through theformatingestion property.
format
Not to be confused with internal (chunk level) compression codec used byParquet,AVROandORCformats. Internal compression name is usually added to a file name before file format extension, for example:file1.gz.parquet,file1.snappy.avro, etc.
Parquet
AVRO
ORC
file1.gz.parquet
file1.snappy.avro
Deflate64/Enhanced Deflatezip compression method is not supported. Please note that Windows built-in zip compressor may choose to use this compression method on files of size over 2GB.
Related content
Learn more aboutdata ingestion
Learn more aboutAzure Data Explorer data ingestion properties
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources