Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitoring with Azure Monitor correlated metrics
Article
2024-05-30
2 contributors
In this article
Correlated metrics compares the values of two metrics, one from the RAN and one from the packet core. You can use these metrics to help draw conclusions about the cause of issues and set alerts if the difference between two metrics exceeds a certain threshold for a prolonged period.
These metrics are available at your Site Resource under theMetricspage. Once you haveset upyour radio access network (RAN) insights resource, these metrics will automatically be populated with information. No other configuration is needed.
Visualize correlated metrics using the Azure portal
Correlated metrics display a graphical view of correlated RAN and core metrics to help troubleshoot issues. In normal operation the two values should be in the same range. You can use alerts to notify you if the correlation value drops below or above a certain range. For example, you might want an alert if it falls below the lower threshold of 80% and above the higher threshold of 120%.

Correlated metrics are available for monitoring and retrieval for up to 30 days. Note that the EMS might provide metrics at intervals up to 15 minutes apart. For an optimal experience, adjust the plotting rate to match the value recommended by the EMS provider. For instance, if your RAN provider emits metrics every 5 minutes, it's advisable to set theTime granularityto 5 minutes.
Correlated metrics descriptions and interpretations
Correlated metrics are collected per site resource and aggregated across all connected access points. SeeSupported metrics with Azure Monitorfor the correlated metrics available for retrieval included undermicrosoft.mobilenetwork/sites.
Related content
Monitor with RAN metrics
Monitor with geo maps
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources