Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes connectivity modes
Article
2024-09-19
2 contributors
In this article
Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes requires deployment of Azure Arc agents on your Kubernetes clusters so that capabilities such asconfigurations (GitOps), extensions,cluster connect, andcustom locationare made available on the cluster. Because Kubernetes clusters deployed on the edge may not have constant network connectivity, the agents may not always be able to reach the Azure Arc services while in a semi-connected mode.
Understand connectivity modes
When working with Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters, it's important to understand how network connectivity modes impact your operations.
Fully connected: With ongoing network connectivity, agents can consistently communicate with Azure. In this mode, there is typically little delay with tasks such as propagating GitOps configurations, enforcing Azure Policy and Gatekeeper policies, or collecting workload metrics and logs in Azure Monitor.
Fully connected: With ongoing network connectivity, agents can consistently communicate with Azure. In this mode, there is typically little delay with tasks such as propagating GitOps configurations, enforcing Azure Policy and Gatekeeper policies, or collecting workload metrics and logs in Azure Monitor.
Semi-connected:  Azure Arc agents can pull desired state specification from the Arc services, then later realize this state on the cluster.ImportantThe managed identity certificate pulled down by theclusteridentityoperatoris valid for up to 90 days before it expires. The agents will try to renew the certificate during this time period; however, if there is no network connectivity, the certificate may expire, and the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource will stop working. Because of this, we recommend ensuring that the connected cluster has network connectivity at least once every 30 days. If the certificate expires, you'll need to delete and then recreate the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource and agents in order to reactivate Azure Arc features on the cluster.
Semi-connected:  Azure Arc agents can pull desired state specification from the Arc services, then later realize this state on the cluster.
Important
The managed identity certificate pulled down by theclusteridentityoperatoris valid for up to 90 days before it expires. The agents will try to renew the certificate during this time period; however, if there is no network connectivity, the certificate may expire, and the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource will stop working. Because of this, we recommend ensuring that the connected cluster has network connectivity at least once every 30 days. If the certificate expires, you'll need to delete and then recreate the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource and agents in order to reactivate Azure Arc features on the cluster.
clusteridentityoperator
Disconnected: Kubernetes clusters in disconnected environments that are unable to access Azure are not currently supported by Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes.
Disconnected: Kubernetes clusters in disconnected environments that are unable to access Azure are not currently supported by Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes.
Connectivity status
The connectivity status of a cluster is determined by the time of the latest heartbeat received from the Arc agents deployed on the cluster:
Next steps
Walk through our quickstart toconnect a Kubernetes cluster to Azure Arc.
Learn more about creating connections between your cluster and a Git repository as aconfiguration resource with Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes.
Review theAzure Arc networking requirements.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources