Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Support matrix for SQL Server Backup in Azure VMs
Article
2025-03-07
7 contributors
In this article
You can use Azure Backup to back up SQL Server databases in Azure VMs hosted on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. This article summarizes the general support settings and limitations for scenarios and deployments of SQL Server Backup in Azure VMs.
Scenario support
Feature considerations and limitations
*The database size limit depends on the data transfer rate that we support and the backup time limit configuration. It’s not the hard limit.Learn moreon backup throughput performance.
SQL Server backup can be configured in the Azure portal orPowerShell. CLI isn't supported.
The solution is supported on both kinds ofdeployments- Azure Resource Manager VMs and classic VMs.
All backup types (full/differential/log) and recovery models (simple/full/bulk logged) are supported.
Forread-onlydatabases: full and copy-only full backups are the only supported backup types.
SQL native compression is supported if explicitly enabled by the user in the backup policy. Azure Backup overrides instance-level defaults with the COMPRESSION / NO_COMPRESSION clause, depending on the value of this control as set by the user.
TDE - enabled database backup is supported. To restore a TDE-encrypted database to another SQL Server, you need to firstrestore the certificate to the destination server. The backup compression for TDE-enabled databases for SQL Server 2016 and newer versions is available, but at lower transfer size as explainedhere.
The backup and restore operations for mirror databases and database snapshots aren't supported.
SQL ServerFailover Cluster Instance (FCI)isn't supported.
Back up of databases with extensions in their names aren’t supported. This is because the IIS server performs thefile extension request filtering. However, note that we've allowlisted.ad,.cs, and.masterthat can be used in the database names. Learn more about thedatabase naming guidelines for Azure Backup.
.ad
.cs
.master
FIPS encryption is currently not supported with SQL backup workloads.
Backup throughput performance
Azure Backup supports a consistent data transfer rate of 350 MBps for full and differential backups of large SQL databases (of 500 GB). To utilize the optimum performance, ensure that:
The underlying VM (containing the SQL Server instance, which hosts the database) is configured with the required network throughput. If the maximum throughput of the VM is less than 200 MBps, Azure Backup can’t transfer data at the optimum speed.Also, the disk that contains the database files must have enough throughput provisioned.Learn moreabout disk throughput and performance in Azure VMs.
Processes, which are running in the VM, are not consuming the VM bandwidth.
The backup schedules are spread across a subset of databases. Multiple backups running concurrently on a VM shares the network consumption rate between the backups.Learn moreabout how to control the number of concurrent backups.
Note
The higher throughput is automatically throttled when the following conditions are met:All the databases should be above the size of4 TB.The databases should be hosted on Azure VMs that havemaximum uncached disk throughput metric greater than 800 MBpS.
All the databases should be above the size of4 TB.
The databases should be hosted on Azure VMs that havemaximum uncached disk throughput metric greater than 800 MBpS.
Download the detailed Resource Plannerto calculate the approximate number of protected databases that are recommended per server based on the VM resources, bandwidth and the backup policy.
Next steps
Learn how toback up a SQL Server databasethat's running on an Azure VM.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources