Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Queue Storage?
Article
2023-11-17
13 contributors
In this article
Azure Queue Storage is a service for storing large numbers of messages. You access messages from anywhere in the world via authenticated calls using HTTP or HTTPS. A queue message can be up to 64 KB in size. A queue may contain millions of messages, up to the total capacity limit of a storage account. Queues are commonly used to create a backlog of work to process asynchronously, like in theWeb-Queue-Worker architectural style.
Queue Storage concepts
Queue Storage contains the following components:

URL format:Queues are addressable using the following URL format:https://<storage account>.queue.core.windows.net/<queue>The following URL addresses a queue in the diagram:https://myaccount.queue.core.windows.net/images-to-download
URL format:Queues are addressable using the following URL format:
https://<storage account>.queue.core.windows.net/<queue>
https://<storage account>.queue.core.windows.net/<queue>
The following URL addresses a queue in the diagram:
https://myaccount.queue.core.windows.net/images-to-download
https://myaccount.queue.core.windows.net/images-to-download
Storage account:All access to Azure Storage is done through a storage account. For information about storage account capacity, seeScalability and performance targets for standard storage accounts.
Storage account:All access to Azure Storage is done through a storage account. For information about storage account capacity, seeScalability and performance targets for standard storage accounts.
Queue:A queue contains a set of messages. The queue namemustbe all lowercase. For information on naming queues, seeNaming queues and metadata.
Queue:A queue contains a set of messages. The queue namemustbe all lowercase. For information on naming queues, seeNaming queues and metadata.
Message:A message, in any format, of up to 64 KB. Before version 2017-07-29, the maximum time-to-live allowed is seven days. For version 2017-07-29 or later, the maximum time-to-live can be any positive number, or -1 indicating that the message doesn't expire. If this parameter is omitted, the default time-to-live is seven days.
Message:A message, in any format, of up to 64 KB. Before version 2017-07-29, the maximum time-to-live allowed is seven days. For version 2017-07-29 or later, the maximum time-to-live can be any positive number, or -1 indicating that the message doesn't expire. If this parameter is omitted, the default time-to-live is seven days.
Next steps
Create a storage account
Get started with Queue Storage using .NET
Get started with Queue Storage using Java
Get started with Queue Storage using Python
Get started with Queue Storage using Node.js
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources