Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Understanding role-based access to your Azure Quantum workspace
Article
2025-01-08
5 contributors
In this article
Learn about the different security principals and roles you can use to manage access to your Azure Quantum workspace.
Azure role-based access control (RBAC)
Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)is the authorization system you use to manage access to Azure resources, such as a workspace. To grant access, you assign roles to a security principal.
Security principal
A security principal is an object that represents a user, group, service principal, or managed identity.
Role
When you grant access to a security principal, you assign abuilt-in roleor create acustom role. The most commonly used built-in roles areOwner,Contributor,Quantum Workspace Data Contributor,  andReader.
Scope
Roles are assigned at a particular scope. Scope is the set of resources that the access applies to. Scopes are structured in a parent-child relationship. Each level of hierarchy makes the scope more specific. The level you select determines how widely the role is applied. Lower levels inherit role permissions from higher levels. You can assign roles at four levels of scope: management group, subscription, resource group, or resource.

Azure storage account: stores input and output data for quantum jobs.
Azure Quantum workspace: a collection of assets associated with running quantum applications.
Note
Because access can be scoped to multiple levels in Azure, a user may have different roles at each level. For example, someone with owner access to a workspace may not have owner access to the resource group that contains the workspace.
Role requirements for creating a workspace
When youcreate a new workspace, you first select a subscription, resource group, and storage account to associate with the workspace. Your ability to create a workspace depends on the levels of access you have, starting at the subscription scope. To view your authorization for various resources, seeCheck your role assignments.
Subscription Owner
Subscription owners can create workspaces using either theQuick createorAdvanced createoptions. You can either choose a resource group and storage account that already exists under the subscription or create new ones. You also have the ability toassign rolesto other users.
Subscription Contributor
Subscription contributors can create workspaces using theAdvanced createoption.
To create a new storage account, you must select an existing resource group that you're an owner of.
To create a new storage account, you must select an existing resource group that you're an owner of.
To select an existing storage account, you must be an owner of the storage account. You must also select the existing resource group that the storage account belongs to.
To select an existing storage account, you must be an owner of the storage account. You must also select the existing resource group that the storage account belongs to.
Subscription contributors can't assign roles to others.
Subscription Reader
Subscription readers can't create workspaces. You can view all resources created under the subscription, but can't make any changes or assign roles.
Check your role assignments
Check your subscriptions
To see a list of your subscriptions and associated roles:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Under the Azure services heading, selectSubscriptions. If you don't seeSubscriptionshere, use the search box to find it.
The Subscriptions filter beside the search box may default to Subscriptions ==global filter. To see a list of all your subscriptions, select the Subscriptions filter anddeselectthe "Select only subscriptions selected in the..." box. Then selectApply. The filter should then show Subscriptions ==all.
Check your resources
To check the role assignment you or another user has for a particular resource, seeCheck access for a user to Azure resources.
Assign roles
To add new users to a workspace, you must be an owner of the workspace. To grant access to 10 or less users to your workspace, seeShare access to your Azure Quantum workspace. To grant access to more than 10 users, seeAdd a group to your Azure Quantum workspace.
To assign roles for any resource at any scope, including the subscription level, seeAssign Azure roles using the Azure portal.
Troubleshooting
For solutions to common issues, seeTroubleshoot Azure Quantum: Creating an Azure Quantum workspace.
When you create a resource in Azure, such as a workspace, you're not directly the owner of the resource. Your role is inherited from the highest scope role that you're authorized against in that subscription.
When you create a resource in Azure, such as a workspace, you're not directly the owner of the resource. Your role is inherited from the highest scope role that you're authorized against in that subscription.
When you create new role assignments, they can sometimes take up to one hour to take effect over cached permissions across the stack.
When you create new role assignments, they can sometimes take up to one hour to take effect over cached permissions across the stack.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources