Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Active Directory B2C ISV partners
Article
2024-01-11
13 contributors
In this article
Our ISV partner network extends our solution capabilities to help you build seamless end-user experiences. With Azure AD B2C, you can integrate with ISV partners to enable multifactor authentication (MFA) methods, do role-based access control, enable identity verification and proofing, improve security with bot detection and fraud protection, and meet Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2) Secure Customer Authentication (SCA) requirements. Use our detailed sample walkthroughs to learn how to integrate apps with the ISV partners.
To be considered into this sample documentation, submit your application request in theMicrosoft Application Network portal. For any additional questions, send an email toSaaSApplicationIntegrations@service.microsoft.com.
Note
TheAzure Active Directory B2C community site on GitHubalso provides sample custom policies from the community.
Identity verification and proofing
Microsoft partners with the following ISVs for identity verification and proofing.
MFA and Passwordless authentication
Microsoft partners with the following ISVs for MFA and Passwordless authentication.
Role-based access control
Microsoft partners with the following ISVs for role-based access control.
Secure hybrid access to on-premises application
Microsoft partners with the following ISVs to provide secure hybrid access to on-premises application.
Fraud protection
Microsoft partners with the following ISVs for fraud detection and prevention.
Web Application Firewall
Microsoft partners with the following ISVs for Web Application Firewall (WAF).
Developer tools
Microsoft partners with the following ISVs for tools that can help with implementation of your authentication solution.
Additional information
Custom policies in Azure AD B2C
Custom policies in Azure AD B2C
Get started with custom policies in Azure AD B2C
Get started with custom policies in Azure AD B2C
Next steps
Select a partner in the tables mentioned to learn how to integrate their solution with Azure AD B2C.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources