Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 503
Article
2023-05-06
1 contributor
In this article
ICD 503 overview
In 2008, the Director of National Intelligence signed theIntelligence Community Directive 503Intelligence Community Information Technology Systems Security Risk Management, Certification and Accreditation. It was intended to provide guidance to the Intelligence Community (IC) for risk management and certification of information systems across the IC. As stated in the Directive, "information technology risk management standards published, issued, and promulgated for the IC by the IC CIO may include standards, policies, and guidelines approved by either or both the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS)". In 2015,ICD 503 was amendedto replace legacy certification and accreditation terminology with current security control assessment and authorization terminology.
ICD 503 establishes IC guidelines across the following domains:
Risk management
Security authorization
Security assessment
Reciprocity
Interconnection
ICD 503 is closely related to the NISTRisk Management Framework(RMF), and it enables the Intelligence Community to use NIST and CNSS standards for security assessment. It also allows the IC to accept a security assessment of an information system conducted by non-IC agencies of the Federal Government if that security assessment is based on standards compatible with those established for the IC, for example, NIST and CNSS standards issued for the IC by the IC CIO.
Azure and ICD 503
Azure Government Top Secret maintains an ICD 503 Authorizations to Operate (ATO) with facilities authorized according toICD 705.
Azure Government Top Secretserves the national security mission and empowers leaders across the Intelligence Community (IC), Department of Defense (DoD), and Federal Civilian agencies to process national security workloads classified at the US Top Secret level. Azure regions for Top Secret classified data expand the ability of our national security customers to achieve greater agility, cost savings, and speed to innovation.
Applicability
Azure Government Top Secret
Services in scope
For a list of Microsoft cloud services in scope for the ICD 503 ATO in Azure Government Top Secret, contact your Microsoft account representative.
Attestation documents
Contact your Microsoft account representative for assistance.
Frequently asked questions
What Azure services are covered by ICD 503 Authorization to Operate (ATO)?For a list of Microsoft online services in scope for the ICD 503 ATO in Azure Government Top Secret, contact your Microsoft account representative.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Azure for US Government
Azure Government Top Secret
NIST SP 800-37Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy
NIST SP 800-53Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations
NIST SP 800-59Guideline for Identifying an Information System as a National Security System
CNSSI 1253Security Categorization and Control Selection for National Security Systems
Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 503Intelligence Community Information Technology Systems Security Risk Management
Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 705Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities
IC Tech Spec - for ICD/ICS 705, version 1.5Technical Specification for Construction and Management of Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities
Additional resources