Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync?
Article
2025-04-09
9 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync is a new offering from Microsoft designed to meet and accomplish your hybrid identity goals for synchronization of users, groups, and contacts to Microsoft Entra ID.  It accomplishes this by using the Microsoft Entra cloud provisioning agent instead of the Microsoft Entra Connect application.  However, it can be used alongside Microsoft Entra Connect Sync and it provides the following benefits:
Support for synchronizing to a Microsoft Entra tenant from a multi-forest disconnected Active Directory forest environment: The common scenarios include merger and acquisition. In these cases, the acquired company's AD forests are isolated from the parent company's AD forests. Another scenario involves companies that historically had multiple AD forests.
Simplified installation with light-weight provisioning agents: The agents act as a bridge from AD to Microsoft Entra ID, with all the sync configuration managed in the cloud.
Multiple provisioning agents can be used to simplify high availability deployments. They're critical for organizations relying upon password hash synchronization from AD to Microsoft Entra ID.
Support for large groups with up to 50,000 members. It's recommended to use only the OU scoping filter when synchronizing large groups.


How is Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync different from Microsoft Entra Connect Sync?
With Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync, provisioning from AD to Microsoft Entra ID is orchestrated in Microsoft Online Services. An organization only needs to deploy, in their on-premises or IaaS-hosted environment, a light-weight agent that acts as a bridge between Microsoft Entra ID and AD. The provisioning configuration is stored in Microsoft Entra ID and managed as part of the service.

Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync video
The following short video provides an excellent overview of Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync:
Choose the right sync client
To determine if cloud sync is right for your organization, use the following link. It takes you to a tool that helps you evaluate your synchronization needs. For more information, evaluate your options using theWizard to evaluate sync options

Comparison between Microsoft Entra Connect and cloud sync
The following table provides a comparison between Microsoft Entra Connect and Microsoft Entra Cloud Sync:
Note
For information about synchronizing to Microsoft Entra tenants operated by 21 Vianet, the version of Microsoft 365 specific to China, seeMicrosoft 365 operated by 21VianetandTopologies for Microsoft Entra Connect.
Next steps
What is provisioning?
Install cloud sync
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources