Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure AI Language?
Article
2025-03-06
6 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Language is a cloud-based service that provides Natural Language Processing (NLP) features for understanding and analyzing text. Use this service to help build intelligent applications using the web-based Language Studio, REST APIs, and client libraries.
Available features
This Language service unifies the following previously available Azure AI services: Text Analytics, QnA Maker, and LUIS. If you need to migrate from these services, seethe migration section.
The Language service also provides several new features as well, which can either be:
Preconfigured, which means the AI models that the feature uses aren't customizable. You just send your data, and use the feature's output in your applications.
Customizable, which means you train an AI model using our tools to fit your data specifically.
Tip
Unsure which feature to use? SeeWhich Language service feature should I useto help you decide.
Azure AI Foundryenables you to use most of the following service features without needing to write code.
Named Entity Recognition (NER)

Named entity recognitionidentifies different entries in text and categorizes them into predefined types.
Personal and health data information detection

PII detectionidentifies entities in text and conversations (chat or transcripts) that are associated with individuals.
Language detection

Language detectionevaluates text and detects a wide range of languages and variant dialects.
Sentiment Analysis and opinion mining

Sentiment analysis and opinion miningpreconfigured features that help you understand public perception of your brand or topic. These features analyze text to identify positive or negative sentiments and can link them to specific elements within the text.
Summarization

Summarizationcondenses information for text and conversations (chat and transcripts).
Text summarization generates a summary, supporting two approaches: Extractive summarization creates a summary by selecting key sentences from the document and preserving their original positions. In contrast, abstractive summarization generates a summary by producing new, concise, and coherent sentences or phrases that aren't directly copied from the original document.
Conversation summarization recaps and segments long meetings into timestamped chapters. Call center summarization summarizes customer issues and resolution.
Key phrase extraction

Key phrase extractionis a preconfigured feature that evaluates and returns the main concepts in unstructured text, and returns them as a list.
Entity linking

Entity linkingis a preconfigured feature that disambiguates the identity of entities (words or phrases) found in unstructured text and returns links to Wikipedia.
Text analytics for health

Text analytics for healthExtracts and labels relevant health information from unstructured text.
Custom text classification

Custom text classificationenables you to build custom AI models to classify unstructured text documents into custom classes you define.
Custom Named Entity Recognition (Custom NER)

Custom NERenables you to build custom AI models to extract custom entity categories (labels for words or phrases), using unstructured text that you provide.
Conversational language understanding

Conversational language understanding (CLU)enables users to build custom natural language understanding models to predict the overall intention of an incoming utterance and extract important information from it.
Orchestration workflow

Orchestration workflowis a custom feature that enables you to connectConversational Language Understanding (CLU),question answering, andLUISapplications.
Question answering

Question answeringis a custom feature that identifies the most suitable answer for user inputs. This feature is typically utilized to develop conversational client applications, including social media platforms, chat bots, and speech-enabled desktop applications.
Which Language service feature should I use?
This section helps you decide which Language service feature you should use for your application:
PII
PHI
* If a feature is customizable, you can train an AI model using our tools to fit your data specifically. Otherwise a feature is preconfigured, meaning the AI models it uses can't be changed. You just send your data, and use the feature's output in your applications.
Migrate from Text Analytics, QnA Maker, or Language Understanding (LUIS)
Azure AI Language unifies three individual language services in Azure AI services - Text Analytics, QnA Maker, and Language Understanding (LUIS). If you have been using these three services, you can easily migrate to the new Azure AI Language. For instructions seeMigrating to Azure AI Language.
Tutorials
After you get started with the Language service quickstarts, try our tutorials that show you how to solve various scenarios.
Extract key phrases from text stored in Power BI
Use Power Automate to sort information in Microsoft Excel
Use Flask to translate text, analyze sentiment, and synthesize speech
Use Azure AI services in canvas apps
Create an FAQ Bot
Code samples
You can find more code samples on GitHub for the following languages:
C#
Java
JavaScript
Python
Deploy on premises using Docker containers
Use Language service containers to deploy API features on-premises. These Docker containers enable you to bring the service closer to your data for compliance, security, or other operational reasons. The Language service offers the following containers:
Sentiment analysis
Language detection
Key phrase extraction
Custom Named Entity Recognition
Text Analytics for health
Summarization
Responsible AI
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who use it, the people affected by it, and the deployment environment. Read the following articles to learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems:
Transparency note for the Language service
Integration and responsible use
Data, privacy, and security
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources