Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure to Azure disaster recovery architecture
Article
2025-03-17
22 contributors
In this article
This article describes the architecture, components, and processes used when you deploy disaster recovery for Azure virtual machines (VMs)  using theAzure Site Recoveryservice. With disaster recovery setup, Azure VMs continuously replicate to a different target region. If an outage occurs, you can fail over VMs to the secondary region, and access them from there. When everything's running normally again, you can fail back and continue working in the primary location.
Architectural components
The components involved in disaster recovery for Azure VMs are summarized in the following table.

Target resources
When you enable replication for a VM, Site Recovery gives you the option of creating target resources automatically.
-ASRReplica
-ASRReplica
ASR-ReplicaDisk
Managing target resources
You can manage target resources as follows:
You can modify target settings as you enable replication. Note that the default SKU for the target region VM is the same as the SKU of the source VM (or the next best available SKU in comparison to the source VM SKU). The dropdown list only shows relevant SKUs of the same family as the source VM (Gen 1 or Gen 2).
You can modify target settings after replication is already working. Similar to other resources such as the target resource group, target name, and others, the target region VM SKU can also be updated after replication is in progress. A resource, which can't be updated is the availability type (single instance, set, or zone). To change this setting, you need to disable replication, modify the setting, and then reenable.
Replication policy
When you enable Azure VM replication, Site Recovery creates a new replication policy with the default settings summarized in the table, by default.
Managing replication policies
You can manage and modify the settings of default replication policies as follows:
You can modify the settings as you enable replication.
You can create a replication policy at any time, and then apply it when you enable replication.
Note
High recovery point retention period may have an implication on the storage cost since more recovery points may need to be saved.
Multi-VM consistency
If you want VMs to replicate together, and have shared crash-consistent and app-consistent recovery points at failover, you can gather them together into a replication group. Multi-VM consistency impacts workload performance, and should only be used for VMs running workloads that need consistency across all machines.
Snapshots and recovery points
Recovery points are created from snapshots of VM disks taken at a specific point in time. When you fail over a VM, you use a recovery point to restore the VM in the target location.
When failing over, we generally want to ensure that the VM starts with no corruption or data loss, and that the VM data is consistent for the operating system, and for apps that run on the VM. This depends on the type of snapshots taken.
Site Recovery takes snapshots as follows:
Site Recovery takes crash-consistent snapshots of data by default, and app-consistent snapshots if you specify a frequency for them.
Recovery points are created from the snapshots, and stored in accordance with retention settings in the replication policy.
Consistency
The following table explains different types of consistency.
Crash-consistent
App-consistent
Replication process
When you enable replication for an Azure VM, the following happens:
The Site Recovery Mobility service extension is automatically installed on the VM.
The extension registers the VM with Site Recovery.
Continuous replication begins for the VM.  Disk writes are immediately transferred to the cache storage account in the source location.
Site Recovery processes the data in the cache, and sends it to the target storage account, or to the replica managed disks.
After the data is processed, crash-consistent recovery points are generated every five minutes. App-consistent recovery points are generated according to the setting specified in the replication policy.

Replication process
Connectivity requirements
The Azure VMs you replicate need outbound connectivity. Site Recovery never needs inbound connectivity to the VM.
Outbound connectivity (URLs)
If outbound access for VMs is controlled with URLs, allow these URLs.
*.blob.core.windows.net
*.blob.core.usgovcloudapi.net
login.microsoftonline.com
login.microsoftonline.us
*.hypervrecoverymanager.windowsazure.com
*.hypervrecoverymanager.windowsazure.us
*.servicebus.windows.net
*.servicebus.usgovcloudapi.net
*.vault.azure.net
*.vault.usgovcloudapi.net
*.automation.ext.azure.com
*.azure-automation.us
Outbound connectivity for IP address ranges
To control outbound connectivity for VMs using IP addresses, allow these addresses.
Note that details of network connectivity requirements can be found innetworking white paper.
If you control VM connectivity by filtering network traffic to and from Azure networks/subnets usingNetwork Security Group rules, note the following requirements:
Network Security Group rules for the source Azure region should allow outbound access for replication traffic.
We recommend you create rules in a test environment before you put them into production.
Useservice tagsinstead of allowing individual IP addresses.Service tags represent a group of IP address prefixes gathered together to minimize complexity when creating security rules.Microsoft automatically updates service tags over time.
Service tags represent a group of IP address prefixes gathered together to minimize complexity when creating security rules.
Microsoft automatically updates service tags over time.
Learn more aboutoutbound connectivityfor Site Recovery, andcontrolling connectivity with Network Security Groups.
Connectivity for multi-VM consistency
If you enable multi-VM consistency, machines in the replication group communicate with each other over port 20004.
Ensure that there's no firewall appliance blocking the internal communication between the VMs over port 20004.
If you want Linux VMs to be part of a replication group, ensure the outbound traffic on port 20004 is manually opened as per the guidance of the specific Linux version.
Failover process
When you initiate a failover, the VMs are created in the target resource group, target virtual network, target subnet, and in the target availability set. During a failover, you can use any recovery point.

Next steps
Quickly replicatean Azure VM to a secondary region.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources