Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Details of the CMMC Level 3 Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
Article
2025-04-07
6 contributors
In this article
The following article details how the Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
definition maps tocompliance domainsandcontrolsin CMMC Level 3.
For more information about this compliance standard, seeCMMC Level 3. To understandOwnership, review thepolicy typeandShared responsibility in the cloud.
The following mappings are to theCMMC Level 3controls. Many of the controls
are implemented with anAzure Policyinitiative definition. To review the complete
initiative definition, openPolicyin the Azure portal and select theDefinitionspage.
Then, find and select theCMMC Level 3Regulatory Compliance built-in
initiative definition.
Important
Each control below is associated with one or moreAzure Policydefinitions.
These policies may help youassess compliancewith the
control; however, there often is not a one-to-one or complete match between a control and one or
more policies. As such,Compliantin Azure Policy refers only to the policy definitions
themselves; this doesn't ensure you're fully compliant with all requirements of a control. In
addition, the compliance standard includes controls that aren't addressed by any Azure Policy
definitions at this time. Therefore, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your
overall compliance status. The associations between compliance domains, controls, and Azure Policy
definitions for this compliance standard may change over time. To view the change history, see theGitHub Commit History.
Access Control
Limit information system access to authorized users, processes acting on behalf of authorized users, and devices (including other information systems).
ID: CMMC L3 AC.1.001Ownership: Shared
Limit information system access to the types of transactions and functions that authorized users are permitted to execute.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.1.002Ownership: Shared
Verify and control/limit connections to and use of external information systems.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.1.003Ownership: Shared
Employ the principle of least privilege, including for specific security functions and privileged accounts.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.2.007Ownership: Shared
Use non-privileged accounts or roles when accessing nonsecurity functions.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.2.008Ownership: Shared
Monitor and control remote access sessions.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.2.013Ownership: Shared
Control the flow of CUI in accordance with approved authorizations.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.2.016Ownership: Shared
Separate the duties of individuals to reduce the risk of malevolent activity without collusion.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.3.017Ownership: Shared
Prevent non-privileged users from executing privileged functions and capture the execution of such functions in audit logs.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.3.018Ownership: Shared
Authorize remote execution of privileged commands and remote access to security-relevant information.
ID: CMMC L3 AC.3.021Ownership: Shared
Audit and Accountability
Ensure that the actions of individual system users can be uniquely traced to those users so they can be held accountable for their actions.
ID: CMMC L3 AU.2.041Ownership: Shared
Create and retain system audit logs and records to the extent needed to enable the monitoring, analysis, investigation, and reporting of unlawful or unauthorized system activity.
ID: CMMC L3 AU.2.042Ownership: Shared
Alert in the event of an audit logging process failure.
ID: CMMC L3 AU.3.046Ownership: Shared
Collect audit information (e.g., logs) into one or more central repositories.
ID: CMMC L3 AU.3.048Ownership: Shared
Protect audit information and audit logging tools from unauthorized access, modification, and deletion.
ID: CMMC L3 AU.3.049Ownership: Shared
Security Assessment
Periodically assess the security controls in organizational systems to determine if the controls are effective in their application.
ID: CMMC L3 CA.2.158Ownership: Shared
Monitor security controls on an ongoing basis to ensure the continued effectiveness of the controls.
ID: CMMC L3 CA.3.161Ownership: Shared
Configuration Management
Establish and maintain baseline configurations and inventories of organizational systems (including hardware, software, firmware, and documentation) throughout the respective system development life cycles.
ID: CMMC L3 CM.2.061Ownership: Shared
Employ the principle of least functionality by configuring organizational systems to provide only essential capabilities.
ID: CMMC L3 CM.2.062Ownership: Shared
Control and monitor user-installed software.
ID: CMMC L3 CM.2.063Ownership: Shared
Establish and enforce security configuration settings for information technology products employed in organizational systems.
ID: CMMC L3 CM.2.064Ownership: Shared
Track, review, approve or disapprove, and log changes to organizational systems.
ID: CMMC L3 CM.2.065Ownership: Shared
Restrict, disable, or prevent the use of nonessential programs, functions, ports, protocols, and services.
ID: CMMC L3 CM.3.068Ownership: Shared
Identification and Authentication
Authenticate (or verify) the identities of those users, processes, or devices, as a prerequisite to allowing access to organizational information systems.
ID: CMMC L3 IA.1.077Ownership: Shared
Enforce a minimum password complexity and change of characters when new passwords are created.
ID: CMMC L3 IA.2.078Ownership: Shared
Prohibit password reuse for a specified number of generations.
ID: CMMC L3 IA.2.079Ownership: Shared
Store and transmit only cryptographically-protected passwords.
ID: CMMC L3 IA.2.081Ownership: Shared
Employ replay-resistant authentication mechanisms for network access to privileged and nonprivileged accounts.
ID: CMMC L3 IA.3.084Ownership: Shared
Incident Response
Establish an operational incident-handling capability for organizational systems that includes preparation, detection, analysis, containment, recovery, and user response activities.
ID: CMMC L3 IR.2.092Ownership: Shared
Detect and report events.
ID: CMMC L3 IR.2.093Ownership: Shared
Recovery
Regularly perform and test data back-ups.
ID: CMMC L3 RE.2.137Ownership: Customer
Regularly perform complete, comprehensive and resilient data backups as organizationally-defined.
ID: CMMC L3 RE.3.139Ownership: Customer
Risk Assessment
Periodically assess the risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, and individuals, resulting from the operation of organizational systems and the associated processing, storage, or transmission of CUI.
ID: CMMC L3 RM.2.141Ownership: Shared
Scan for vulnerabilities in organizational systems and applications periodically and when new vulnerabilities affecting those systems and applications are identified.
ID: CMMC L3 RM.2.142Ownership: Shared
Remediate vulnerabilities in accordance with risk assessments.
ID: CMMC L3 RM.2.143Ownership: Shared
Risk Management
Periodically perform risk assessments to identify and prioritize risks according to the defined risk categories, risk sources and risk measurement criteria.
ID: CMMC L3 RM.3.144Ownership: Shared
System and Communications Protection
Monitor, control, and protect communications (i.e., information transmitted or received by organizational systems) at the external boundaries and key internal boundaries of organizational systems.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.1.175Ownership: Shared
Implement subnetworks for publicly accessible system components that are physically or logically separated from internal networks.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.1.176Ownership: Shared
Use encrypted sessions for the management of network devices.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.2.179Ownership: Customer
Employ FIPS-validated cryptography when used to protect the confidentiality of CUI.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.177Ownership: Shared
Employ architectural designs, software development techniques, and systems engineering principles that promote effective information security within organizational systems.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.180Ownership: Shared
Separate user functionality from system management functionality.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.181Ownership: Shared
Deny network communications traffic by default and allow network communications traffic by exception (i.e., deny all, permit by exception).
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.183Ownership: Shared
Implement cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure of CUI during transmission unless otherwise protected by alternative physical safeguards.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.185Ownership: Shared
Establish and manage cryptographic keys for cryptography employed in organizational systems.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.187Ownership: Shared
Protect the authenticity of communications sessions.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.190Ownership: Shared
Protect the confidentiality of CUI at rest.
ID: CMMC L3 SC.3.191Ownership: Shared
System and Information Integrity
Identify, report, and correct information and information system flaws in a timely manner.
ID: CMMC L3 SI.1.210Ownership: Shared
Provide protection from malicious code at appropriate locations within organizational information systems.
ID: CMMC L3 SI.1.211Ownership: Shared
Update malicious code protection mechanisms when new releases are available.
ID: CMMC L3 SI.1.212Ownership: Shared
Perform periodic scans of the information system and real-time scans of files from external sources as files are downloaded, opened, or executed.
ID: CMMC L3 SI.1.213Ownership: Shared
Monitor organizational systems, including inbound and outbound communications traffic, to detect attacks and indicators of potential attacks.
ID: CMMC L3 SI.2.216Ownership: Shared
Identify unauthorized use of organizational systems.
ID: CMMC L3 SI.2.217Ownership: Shared
Next steps
Additional articles about Azure Policy:
Regulatory Complianceoverview.
See theinitiative definition structure.
Review other examples atAzure Policy samples.
ReviewUnderstanding policy effects.
Learn how toremediate non-compliant resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources