Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Deploying the Microsoft Rights Management connector
Article
2023-10-23
9 contributors
In this article
Use this information to learn about the Microsoft Rights Management connector, and then how to successfully deploy it for your organization. This connector provides data protection for existing on-premises deployments that use MicrosoftExchange Server,SharePoint Server, or file servers that run Windows Server andFile Classification Infrastructure(FCI).
Overview of the Microsoft Rights Management connector
The Microsoft Rights Management (RMS) connector lets you quickly enable existing on-premises servers to use their Information Rights Management (IRM) functionality with the cloud-based Microsoft Rights Management service (Azure RMS). With this functionality, IT and users can easily protect documents and pictures both inside your organization and outside, without having to install additional infrastructure or establish trust relationships with other organizations.
The RMS connector is a small-footprint service that you install on-premises, on servers that run Windows Server 2019, Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2012. In addition to running the connector on physical computers, you can also run it on virtual machines, including Azure IaaS VMs. After you deploy the connector, it acts as a communications interface (a relay) between the on-premises servers and the cloud service, as shown in the following picture. The arrows indicate the direction in which network connections are initiated.

On-premises servers supported
The RMS connector supports the following on-premises servers: Exchange Server, SharePoint Server, and file servers that run Windows Server and use File Classification Infrastructure to classify and apply policies to Office documents in a folder.
Note
If you want to protect multiple file types (not just Office documents) by using File Classification Infrastructure, do not use the RMS connector, but instead, use theAzureInformationProtection cmdlets.
For the versions of these on-premises servers that are supported by the RMS connector, seeOn-premises servers that support Azure RMS.
Support for hybrid scenarios
You can use the RMS connector even if some of your users are connecting to online services, in a hybrid scenario. For example, some users' mailboxes use Exchange Online and some users' mailboxes use Exchange Server. After you install the RMS connector, all users can protect and consume emails and attachments by using Azure RMS, and information protection works seamlessly between the two deployment configurations.
Support for customer-managed keys (BYOK)
If you manage your own tenant key for Azure RMS (the bring your own key, or BYOK scenario), the RMS connector and the on-premises servers that use it do not access the hardware security module (HSM) that contains your tenant key. This is because all cryptographic operations that use the tenant key are performed in Azure RMS, and not on-premises.
If you want to learn more about this scenario where you manage your tenant key, seePlanning and implementing your Azure Information Protection tenant key.
Prerequisites for the RMS connector
Before you install the RMS connector, make sure that the following requirements are in place.
Steps to deploy the RMS connector
The connector does not automatically check all theprerequisitesthat it needs for a successful deployment, so make sure that these are in place before you start. The deployment requires you to install the connector, configure the connector, and then configure the servers that you want to use the connector.
Step 1:Installing the RMS connector
Step 1:Installing the RMS connector
Step 2:Entering credentials
Step 2:Entering credentials
Step 3:Authorizing servers to use the RMS connector
Step 3:Authorizing servers to use the RMS connector
Step 4:Configuring load balancing and high availabilityOptional:Configuring the RMS connector to use HTTPSOptional:Configuring the RMS connector for a web proxy serverOptional:Installing the RMS connector administration tool on administrative computers
Step 4:Configuring load balancing and high availability
Optional:Configuring the RMS connector to use HTTPS
Optional:Configuring the RMS connector to use HTTPS
Optional:Configuring the RMS connector for a web proxy server
Optional:Configuring the RMS connector for a web proxy server
Optional:Installing the RMS connector administration tool on administrative computers
Optional:Installing the RMS connector administration tool on administrative computers
Step 5:Configuring servers to use the RMS connectorConfiguring an Exchange server to use the connectorConfiguring a SharePoint server to use the connectorConfiguring a file server for File Classification Infrastructure to use the connector
Step 5:Configuring servers to use the RMS connector
Configuring an Exchange server to use the connector
Configuring an Exchange server to use the connector
Configuring a SharePoint server to use the connector
Configuring a SharePoint server to use the connector
Configuring a file server for File Classification Infrastructure to use the connector
Configuring a file server for File Classification Infrastructure to use the connector
Next steps
Go to Step 1:Installing and configuring the Microsoft Rights Management connector.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources