Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Improve performance by compressing files in Azure CDN
Article
2025-03-31
18 contributors
In this article
Important
Azure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) will be retired onSeptember 30, 2027. To avoid any service disruption, it's important that youmigrate your Azure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) profilesto Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier by September 30, 2027. For more information, seeAzure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic) retirement.
Azure CDN from Edgio was retired onJanuary 15, 2025. For more information, seeAzure CDN from Edgio retirement FAQ.
File compression is a simple and effective method to improve file transfer speed and increase page-load performance by reducing a file's size before it's sent from the server. File compression can reduce bandwidth costs and provide a more responsive experience for your users.
There are two ways to enable file compression:
Enable compression on your origin server. In this case, Azure CDN passes along the compressed files and delivers them to clients that request them.
Enable compression directly on the CDN POP servers (compression on the fly). In this case, the CDN compresses the files and serves them to the end users, even if they don't get compressed by the origin server.
Important
Azure Content Delivery Network configuration changes can take up to 10 minutes  to propagate through the network:
If you're setting up compression for the first time for your CDN endpoint, consider waiting 1-2 hours before you troubleshoot to ensure the compression settings have propagated to the POPs.
Enabling compression
The standard and premium CDN tiers provide the same compression functionality, but the user interface differs. For more information about the differences between standard and premium CDN tiers, seeAzure CDN Overview.
From the CDN profile page, select the CDN endpoint you want to manage.The CDN endpoint page opens.
From the CDN profile page, select the CDN endpoint you want to manage.
The CDN endpoint page opens.
SelectCompression.The compression page opens.
SelectCompression.

The compression page opens.
SelectOnto turn on compression.
SelectOnto turn on compression.

Use the default MIME types, or modify the list by adding or removing MIME types.TipAlthough it is possible, it is not recommended to apply compression to compressed formats. For example, ZIP, MP3, MP4, or JPG.
Use the default MIME types, or modify the list by adding or removing MIME types.
Tip
Although it is possible, it is not recommended to apply compression to compressed formats. For example, ZIP, MP3, MP4, or JPG.
After making your changes, selectSave.
After making your changes, selectSave.
Compression rules
Only files that meet the following criteria are eligible for compression:
Be of a MIME type that has beenconfigured for compression
Have only "identity"Content-Encodingheaders in the origin response
Be larger than 1 KB
Be smaller than 8 MB
Only the following compression encodings are supported:
gzip (GNU zip)
brotli
If the request supports more than one compression type, brotli compression takes precedence.
When a request for an asset specifies gzip compression and the request results in a cache miss, Azure CDN performs gzip compression of the asset directly on the POP server. Afterward, the compressed file is served from the cache.
If the origin uses Chunked Transfer Encoding (CTE) to send data to the CDN POP, then compression isn't supported.
Compression behavior tables
The following tables describe Azure CDN compression behavior for every scenario:
Compression is disabled or file is ineligible for compression
Compression is enabled and file is eligible for compression
Cache-Control: no-cache
Media Services CDN Compression
For endpoints enabled for Media Services CDN streaming, compression is enabled by default for the following MIME types:
application/vnd.ms-sstr+XML
application/dash+XML
application/vnd.Apple.mpegurl
application/f4m+XML
See also
Troubleshooting CDN file compression
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources