Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor Log Analytics API overview
Article
2024-09-17
9 contributors
In this article
The Log Analytics Query API is a REST API that you can use to query the full set of data collected by Azure Monitor logs. You can use the same query language that's used throughout the service. Use this API to retrieve data, build new visualizations of your data, and extend the capabilities of Log Analytics.
Log Analytics API authentication
You must authenticate to access the Log Analytics API:
To query your workspaces, you must useMicrosoft Entra authentication.
To quickly explore the API without using Microsoft Entra authentication, you can use an API key to query sample data in a non-production environment.

Microsoft Entra authentication for workspace data
The Log Analytics API supports Microsoft Entra authentication with three differentMicrosoft Entra ID OAuth2flows:
Authorization code
Implicit
Client credentials
The authorization code flow and implicit flow both require at least one user interactive sign-in to your application. If you need a non-interactive flow, use the client credentials flow.
After you receive a token, the process for calling the Log Analytics API is the same for all flows. Requests require theAuthorization: Bearerheader, populated with the token received from the OAuth2 flow.
Authorization: Bearer
API key authentication for sample data
To quickly explore the API without using Microsoft Entra authentication, we provide a demonstration workspace with sample data. You canauthenticate by using an API key.
Note
When you use Microsoft Entra authentication, it might take up to 60 minutes for the Application Insights REST API to recognize new role-based access control permissions. While permissions are propagating, REST API calls might fail witherror code 403.
Log Analytics API query limits
For information about query limits, see theQuery API section of this webpage.
Try the Log Analytics API
To try the API without writing any code, you can use:
Your favorite client such asBrunoorInsomniato manually generate queries with a user interface.
cURLfrom the command line. Then pipe the output intojsonlintto get readable JSON.
Instead of calling the REST API directly, you can use the idiomatic Azure Monitor Query client libraries:
.NET
Go
Java
JavaScript
Python
Each client library is a wrapper around the REST API that allows you to retrieve log data from the workspace.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources