Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Set up a new Microsoft Entra tenant
Article
2025-04-16
25 contributors
In this article
To build apps that use the Microsoft identity platform for identity and access management, you need access to a Microsoft Entratenant. It's in the Microsoft Entra tenant that you register and manage your apps, configure their access to data in Microsoft 365 and other web APIs, and enable features like Conditional Access.
A tenant represents an organization. It's a dedicated instance of Microsoft Entra ID that an organization or app developer receives at the beginning of a relationship with Microsoft. That relationship could start with signing up for Azure, Microsoft Intune, or Microsoft 365, for example.
Each Microsoft Entra tenant is distinct and separate from other Microsoft Entra tenants. It has its own representation of work and school identities, consumer identities (if it's an Azure AD B2C tenant), and app registrations. An app registration inside your tenant can allow authentications only from accounts within your tenant or all tenants.
Prerequisites
An Azure account that has an active subscription.Create an account for free.
Determining the type of users you'll create apps for
You can create a tenant with two different configurations:  workforce or customer. The environment depends solely on the types of users your app will authenticate.
This quickstart addresses two scenarios for the type of app you want to build:
Workforce-facing apps and services for work and school accounts (Microsoft Entra ID) or Microsoft accounts (such as Outlook.com and Live.com)
Customer-facing apps and services for social and local accounts
Work and school accounts, or personal Microsoft accounts
To build an environment for either work and school accounts or personal Microsoft accounts (MSA), you can use an existing Microsoft Entra tenant or create a new one.
Use an existing Microsoft Entra tenant
Many developers already have tenants through services or subscriptions that are tied to Microsoft Entra tenants, such as Microsoft 365 or Azure subscriptions.
To check the tenant:
Sign in to theMicrosoft Entra admin centeras at least aTenant Creator.
Check the upper-right corner. If you have a tenant, you'll automatically be signed in. You see the tenant name directly under your account name.Hover over your account name to see your name, email address, directory or tenant ID (a GUID), and domain.If your account is associated with multiple tenants, you can select your account name to open a menu where you can switch between tenants. Each tenant has its own tenant ID.
Hover over your account name to see your name, email address, directory or tenant ID (a GUID), and domain.
If your account is associated with multiple tenants, you can select your account name to open a menu where you can switch between tenants. Each tenant has its own tenant ID.
Tip
To find the tenant ID, you can:
Hover over your account name to get the directory or tenant ID.
Browse toEntra ID>Overview>Propertiesand look forTenant ID.
If you don't have a tenant associated with your account, you'll see a GUID under your account name. You won't be able to do actions like registering apps until you create a Microsoft Entra tenant.

Create a new Microsoft Entra tenant
If you don't already have a Microsoft Entra tenant or if you want to create a new one for development, seeCreate a new tenant in Microsoft Entra ID. If you want to create a tenant for app testing, seebuild a test environment.
You'll provide the following information to create your new tenant:
Tenant type- Choose between a Microsoft Entra tenant and an Azure AD B2C tenant
Organization name
Initial domain- Initial domain<domainname>.onmicrosoft.comcan't be edited or deleted. You can add a customized domain name later.
<domainname>.onmicrosoft.com
Country or region
Note
When naming your tenant, use alphanumeric characters. Special characters aren't allowed. The name must not exceed 256 characters.
Social and local accounts
To begin building external facing applications that sign in social and local accounts, create a tenant with external configurations. To begin, seeCreate a tenant with external configuration.
Next steps
Register an app
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources