Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Make your container registry content publicly available
Article
2025-03-12
6 contributors
In this article
Setting up an Azure container registry for anonymous (unauthenticated) pull access is an optional feature that allows any user with internet access to pull any content from the registry.
Anonymous pull access is a preview feature, available in the Standard and Premiumservice tiers. To configure anonymous pull access, update a registry using the Azure CLI (version 2.21.0 or later). For information about installing or upgrading, seeInstall Azure CLI.
About anonymous pull access
By default, access to pull or push content from an Azure container registry is only available toauthenticatedusers. Enabling anonymous (unauthenticated) pull access makes all registry content publicly available for read (pull) actions. Use anonymous pull access in scenarios that don't require user authentication, such as distributing public container images.
Enable anonymous pull access by updating the properties of an existing registry.
After enabling anonymous pull access, you can disable that access at any time.
Only data-plane operations are available to unauthenticated clients.
The registry might throttle a high rate of unauthenticated requests.
If you previously authenticated to the registry, make sure you clear the credentials before attempting an anonymous pull operation.
Warning
Anonymous pull access currently applies to all repositories in the registry. If you manage repository access usingrepository-scoped tokens, all users can pull from those repositories in a registry enabled for anonymous pull. We recommend deleting tokens when anonymous pull access is enabled.
Configure anonymous pull access
Users can enable, disable, and query the status of anonymous pull access using the Azure CLI. The following examples demonstrate how to enable, disable, and query the status of anonymous pull access.
Enable anonymous pull access
Update a registry using theaz acr updatecommand and pass the--anonymous-pull-enabledparameter. By default, anonymous pull is disabled in the registry.
--anonymous-pull-enabled
az acr update --name myregistry --anonymous-pull-enabled
az acr update --name myregistry --anonymous-pull-enabled
Important
If you previously authenticated to the registry with Docker credentials, rundocker logoutto ensure that you clear the existing credentials before attempting anonymous pull operations. Otherwise, you might see an error message similar to "pull access denied".
Remember to always specify the fully qualified registry name (all lowercase) when usingdocker loginand tagging images for pushing to your registry. In the examples provided, the fully qualified name ismyregistry.azurecr.io.
docker logout
docker login
myregistry.azurecr.io
If you previously authenticated to the registry with Docker credentials, run the following command to clear existing credentials or any previous authentication.
docker logout myregistry.azurecr.io
docker logout myregistry.azurecr.io
This step helps you attempt an anonymous pull operation. If you encounter any issues, you might see an error message similar to "pull access denied."
Disable anonymous pull access
Disable anonymous pull access by setting--anonymous-pull-enabledtofalse.
--anonymous-pull-enabled
false
az acr update --name myregistry --anonymous-pull-enabled false
az acr update --name myregistry --anonymous-pull-enabled false
Query the status of anonymous pull access
You can query the status of "anonymous-pull" using theaz acr show commandwith the--queryparameter. Here's an example:
--query
az acr show -n <registry_name> --query anonymousPullEnabled
az acr show -n <registry_name> --query anonymousPullEnabled
The command returns a boolean value indicating whether "Anonymous Pull" is enabled (true) or disabled (false). This command streamlines the process of verifying the status of features within ACR.
true
false
Next steps
Learn about usingrepository-scoped tokens.
Learn about options toauthenticateto an Azure container registry.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources