Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure VMware Solution networking and interconnectivity concepts
Article
2024-03-24
2 contributors
In this article
Azure VMware Solution offers a private cloud environment accessible from on-premises sites and Azure-based resources. Services such as Azure ExpressRoute, VPN connections, or Azure Virtual WAN deliver the connectivity. However, these services require specific network address ranges and firewall ports for enabling the services.
When you deploy a private cloud, private networks for management, provisioning, and vMotion get created. You use these private networks to access VMware vCenter Server and VMware NSX Manager and virtual machine vMotion or deployment.
ExpressRoute Global Reachis used to connect private clouds to on-premises environments. It connects circuits directly at the Microsoft Edge level. The connection requires a virtual network (vNet) with an ExpressRoute circuit to on-premises in your subscription.  The reason is that vNet gateways (ExpressRoute Gateways) can't transit traffic, which means you can attach two circuits to the same gateway, but it doesn't send the traffic from one circuit to the other.
Each Azure VMware Solution environment is its own ExpressRoute region (its own virtual MSEE device), which lets you connect Global Reach to the 'local' peering location.  It allows you to connect multiple Azure VMware Solution instances in one region to the same peering location.
Note
For locations where ExpressRoute Global Reach isn't enabled, for example, because of local regulations, you have to build a routing solution using Azure IaaS VMs. For some examples, seeAzure Cloud Adoption Framework - Network topology and connectivity for Azure VMware Solution.
Virtual machines deployed on the private cloud are accessible to the internet through theAzure Virtual WAN public IPfunctionality. For new private clouds, internet access is disabled by default.
Azure VMware Solution private cloud offers two types of interconnectivity:
Basic Azure-only interconnectivityallows you to manage and use your private cloud with a single virtual network in Azure. This setup is ideal for evaluations or implementations that don't require access from on-premises environments.
Basic Azure-only interconnectivityallows you to manage and use your private cloud with a single virtual network in Azure. This setup is ideal for evaluations or implementations that don't require access from on-premises environments.
Full on-premises to private cloud interconnectivityextends the basic Azure-only implementation to include interconnectivity between on-premises and Azure VMware Solution private clouds.
Full on-premises to private cloud interconnectivityextends the basic Azure-only implementation to include interconnectivity between on-premises and Azure VMware Solution private clouds.
This article explains key networking and interconnectivity concepts, including requirements and limitations. It also provides the information you need to configure your networking with Azure VMware Solution.
Azure VMware Solution private cloud use cases
The use cases for Azure VMware Solution private clouds include:
New VMware vSphere VM workloads in the cloud
VM workload bursting to the cloud (on-premises to Azure VMware Solution only)
VM workload migration to the cloud (on-premises to Azure VMware Solution only)
Disaster recovery (Azure VMware Solution to Azure VMware Solution or on-premises to Azure VMware Solution)
Consumption of Azure services
Tip
All use cases for the Azure VMware Solution service are enabled with on-premises to private cloud connectivity.
Azure virtual network interconnectivity
You can interconnect your Azure virtual network with the Azure VMware Solution private cloud implementation. This connection allows you to manage your Azure VMware Solution private cloud, consume workloads in your private cloud, and access other Azure services.
The following diagram illustrates the basic network interconnectivity established during a private cloud deployment. It shows the logical networking between a virtual network in Azure and a private cloud. This connectivity is established via a backend ExpressRoute that is part of the Azure VMware Solution service. The interconnectivity supports the following primary use cases:
Inbound access to vCenter Server and NSX Manager from VMs in your Azure subscription.
Outbound access from VMs on the private cloud to Azure services.
Inbound access to workloads running in the private cloud.
Important
When connectingproductionAzure VMware Solution private clouds to an Azure virtual network, use an ExpressRoute virtual network gateway with the Ultra Performance Gateway SKU and enable FastPath to achieve 10Gbps connectivity. For less critical environments, use the Standard or High Performance Gateway SKUs for slower network performance.
Note
If you need to connect more than four Azure VMware Solution private clouds in the same Azure region to the same Azure virtual network, useAVS Interconnectto aggregate private cloud connectivity within the Azure region.

On-premises interconnectivity
In the fully interconnected scenario, you can access the Azure VMware Solution from your Azure virtual network(s) and on-premises. This implementation extends the basic implementation described in the previous section. An ExpressRoute circuit is required to connect from on-premises to your Azure VMware Solution private cloud in Azure.
The following diagram shows the on-premises to private cloud interconnectivity, which enables the following use cases:
Hot/Cold vSphere vMotion between on-premises and Azure VMware Solution.
On-premises to Azure VMware Solution private cloud management access.

For full interconnectivity to your private cloud, enable ExpressRoute Global Reach and then request an authorization key and private peering ID for Global Reach in the Azure portal. Use the authorization key and peering ID to establish Global Reach between an ExpressRoute circuit in your subscription and the ExpressRoute circuit for your private cloud. Once linked, the two ExpressRoute circuits route network traffic between your on-premises environments and your private cloud. For more information on the procedures, see thetutorial for creating an ExpressRoute Global Reach peering to a private cloud.
Important
Don't advertise bogon routes over ExpressRoute from on-premises or your Azure VNet. Examples of bogon routes include 0.0.0.0/5 or 192.0.0.0/3.
Route advertisement guidelines to Azure VMware Solution
Follow these guidelines when advertising routes from your on-premises and Azure virtual network to Azure VMware Solution over ExpressRoute:
0.0.0.0/1, 128.0.0.0/1 0.0.0.0/5
192.0.0.0/3.
10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16
10.1.0.0/16, 172.24.0.0/16, 192.168.1.0/24
RFC 6598-100.64.0.0/10
Note
The customer-advertised default route to Azure VMware Solution can't be used to route back the traffic when the customer accesses Azure VMware Solution management appliances (vCenter Server, NSX Manager, HCX Manager). The customer needs to advertise a more specific route to Azure VMware Solution for that traffic to be routed back.
Limitations
The following table describes the maximum limits for Azure VMware Solution.
* For information about an RPO lower than 15 minutes, seeHow the 5-minute RPO worksin the vSphere Replication Administration documentation.
** This soft recommended limit can support higher throughput based on the scenario.
For other VMware-specific limits, use theVMware by Broadcom configuration maximum tool.
Next steps
Now that you understand Azure VMware Solution network and interconnectivity concepts, consider learning about:
Azure VMware Solution storage concepts
Azure VMware Solution identity concepts
Enabling the Azure VMware Solution resource provider
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources