Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Configure a branch policy for an external service
Article
2025-02-18
8 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
Branch policies are a powerful feature to ensure high quality code in your repo by establishing requirements for all pull requests. External services can use the PRStatus APIto post detailed status to your PRs. The branch policy for external services brings the ability for those 3rd party services to participate in the PR workflow and establish policy requirements. This article guides you through the process of configuring a branch policy for a service that is posting PR status. For more information about PR status, seeCustomize and extend pull request workflows with pull request status.
Prerequisites
Note
In public projects, users withStakeholderaccess have full access to Azure Repos, including viewing, cloning, and contributing to code.
Configure the branch policy
Navigate toCode>Branchesand find the branch that you want to configure the policy on (typicallymainordevelop). From the context menu, select theBranch policiesoption.
Navigate toCode>Branchesand find the branch that you want to configure the policy on (typicallymainordevelop). From the context menu, select theBranch policiesoption.
main
develop

Scroll down to findStatus checks. Select the+button.
Scroll down to findStatus checks. Select the+button.

Select the service you want to create a policy for from the list.  If the status has been posted previously you can pick it from the list; if it is a new policy you can type in the name of the policy.Policy requirementdetermines whether or not this policy is optional or required to complete pull requests into the branch.Authorized identityis used to enforce that status from only the specified identity will be counted towards the policy fulfillment.Reset conditionsis used to determine when a posted status is no longer valid. If the status posted is specific to the latest code (i.e. a build), checkReset status whenever there are new changesto reset the status when the source branch changes.Optionally set aPath filter. Learn more aboutpath filtersin branch policies.Policy applicabilitydetermines whether this policy applies as soon as a pull request is created, or whether the policy applies only after the first status is posted to the pull request.Default display nameallows you to specify an optional display name for your policy.
Select the service you want to create a policy for from the list.  If the status has been posted previously you can pick it from the list; if it is a new policy you can type in the name of the policy.

Policy requirementdetermines whether or not this policy is optional or required to complete pull requests into the branch.
Authorized identityis used to enforce that status from only the specified identity will be counted towards the policy fulfillment.
Reset conditionsis used to determine when a posted status is no longer valid. If the status posted is specific to the latest code (i.e. a build), checkReset status whenever there are new changesto reset the status when the source branch changes.
Optionally set aPath filter. Learn more aboutpath filtersin branch policies.
Policy applicabilitydetermines whether this policy applies as soon as a pull request is created, or whether the policy applies only after the first status is posted to the pull request.
Default display nameallows you to specify an optional display name for your policy.
Create a new pull request
Create a new pull request into the branch where the policy is defined. For more information, seeCreate a pull request.
Create a new pull request into the branch where the policy is defined. For more information, seeCreate a pull request.
After creating the PR, the new policy will appear in the Policies section of the PR details view. Initially, the policy will appear as not set until the external service has posted status.When the service has posted status, the policy will update accordingly. Completion will be blocked until the policy approves the PR.When the policy criteria are met, and the service posts asucceededstatus, the PR will be approved and completion will be unblocked.
After creating the PR, the new policy will appear in the Policies section of the PR details view. Initially, the policy will appear as not set until the external service has posted status.

When the service has posted status, the policy will update accordingly. Completion will be blocked until the policy approves the PR.

When the policy criteria are met, and the service posts asucceededstatus, the PR will be approved and completion will be unblocked.
succeeded

Summary
In this article, you learned how to configure a branch policy for an external service.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources