Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Vision-enabled chat model concepts
Article
2025-02-21
6 contributors
In this article
Vision-enabled chat models are large multimodal models (LMM) developed by OpenAI that can analyze images and provide textual responses to questions about them. They incorporate both natural language processing and visual understanding. The current vision-enabled models are GPT-4 Turbo with Vision, GPT-4o, and GPT-4o-mini. This guide provides details on their capabilities and limitations.
To try out vision-enabled chat models, see thequickstart.
Vision-enabled chats
The vision-enabled models answer general questions about what's present in the images you upload.
Special pricing information
Important
Pricing details are subject to change in the future.
Vision-enabled models accrue charges like other Azure OpenAI chat models. You pay a per-token rate for the prompts and completions, detailed on thePricing page. The base charges and additional features are outlined here:
Base Pricing for GPT-4 Turbo with Vision is:
Input: $0.01 per 1000 tokens
Output: $0.03 per 1000 tokens
See theTokens section of the overviewfor information on how text and images translate to tokens.
Example image price calculation
Important
The following content is an example only, and prices are subject to change in the future.
For a typical use case, take an image with both visible objects and text and a 100-token prompt input. When the service processes the prompt, it generates 100 tokens of output. In the image, both text and objects can be detected. The price of this transaction would be:
Input limitations
This section describes the limitations of vision-enabled chat models.
Image support
Maximum input image size: The maximum size for input images is restricted to 20 MB.
Low resolution accuracy: When images are analyzed using the "low resolution" setting, it allows for faster responses and uses fewer input tokens for certain use cases. However, this could impact the accuracy of object and text recognition within the image.
Image chat restriction: When you upload images inAzure AI Foundry portalor the API, there is a limit of 10 images per chat call.
Next steps
Get started using vision-enabled models by following thequickstart.
For a more in-depth look at the APIs, follow thehow-to guide.
See thecompletions and embeddings API reference
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources