Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance controls for Azure Data Explorer
Article
2023-12-26
4 contributors
In this article
Regulatory Compliance in Azure Policyprovides Microsoft created and managed initiative definitions, known asbuilt-ins, for thecompliance domainsandsecurity controlsrelated to different compliance standards. This
page lists thecompliance domainsandsecurity controlsfor Azure Data Explorer. You can
assign the built-ins for asecurity controlindividually to help make your Azure resources
compliant with the specific standard.
The title of each built-in policy definition links to the policy definition in the Azure portal. Use
the link in thePolicy Versioncolumn to view the source on theAzure Policy GitHub repo.
For resources regarding compliance for your business or organization, see theAzure compliance documentation.
Important
Each control below is associated with one or moreAzure Policydefinitions. These policies may help youassess compliancewith the control;
however, there often is not a one-to-one or complete match between a control and one or more
policies. As such,Compliantin Azure Policy refers only to the policies themselves; this
doesn't ensure you're fully compliant with all requirements of a control. In addition, the
compliance standard includes controls that aren't addressed by any Azure Policy definitions at
this time. Therefore, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your overall compliance
status. The associations between controls and Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance definitions for
these compliance standards may change over time.
CMMC Level 3
To review how the available Azure Policy built-ins for all Azure services map to this compliance
standard, seeAzure Policy Regulatory Compliance - CMMC Level 3. For
more information about this compliance standard, seeCybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC).
Related content
Azure compliance documentation
Azure security baseline for Azure Data Explorer
See the built-ins on theAzure Policy GitHub repo
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources