Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Details of the SWIFT CSP-CSCF v2022 Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
Article
2025-04-07
3 contributors
In this article
The following article details how the Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
definition maps tocompliance domainsandcontrolsin SWIFT CSP-CSCF v2022.
For more information about this compliance standard, seeSWIFT CSP-CSCF v2022. To understandOwnership, review thepolicy typeandShared responsibility in the cloud.
The following mappings are to theSWIFT CSP-CSCF v2022controls. Many of the controls
are implemented with anAzure Policyinitiative definition. To review the complete
initiative definition, openPolicyin the Azure portal and select theDefinitionspage.
Then, find and select theSWIFT CSP-CSCF v2022Regulatory Compliance built-in
initiative definition.
Important
Each control below is associated with one or moreAzure Policydefinitions.
These policies may help youassess compliancewith the
control; however, there often is not a one-to-one or complete match between a control and one or
more policies. As such,Compliantin Azure Policy refers only to the policy definitions
themselves; this doesn't ensure you're fully compliant with all requirements of a control. In
addition, the compliance standard includes controls that aren't addressed by any Azure Policy
definitions at this time. Therefore, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your
overall compliance status. The associations between compliance domains, controls, and Azure Policy
definitions for this compliance standard may change over time. To view the change history, see theGitHub Commit History.
1. Restrict Internet Access & Protect Critical Systems from General IT Environment
Ensure the protection of the user's local SWIFT infrastructure from potentially compromised elements of the general IT environment and external environment.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 1.1Ownership: Shared
Restrict and control the allocation and usage of administrator-level operating system accounts.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 1.2Ownership: Shared
Secure the virtualisation platform and virtual machines (VMs) that host SWIFT-related components to the same level as physical systems.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 1.3Ownership: Shared
Control/Protect Internet access from operator PCs and systems within the secure zone.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 1.4Ownership: Shared
Ensure the protection of the customer's connectivity infrastructure from external environment and potentially compromised elements of the general IT environment.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 1.5AOwnership: Shared
2. Reduce Attack Surface and Vulnerabilities
Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity of application data flows between local SWIFT-related components.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.1Ownership: Shared
Minimise the occurrence of known technical vulnerabilities on operator PCs and within the local SWIFT infrastructure by ensuring vendor support, applying mandatory software updates, and applying timely security updates aligned to the assessed risk.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.2Ownership: Shared
Reduce the cyber-attack surface of SWIFT-related components by performing system hardening.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.3Ownership: Shared
Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and mutual authenticity of data flows between local or remote SWIFT infrastructure components and the back-office first hops they connect to.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.4Ownership: Shared
Back-office Data Flow Security
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.4AOwnership: Customer
Protect the confidentiality of SWIFT-related data transmitted or stored outside of the secure zone as part of operational processes.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.5Ownership: Shared
External Transmission Data Protection
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.5AOwnership: Customer
Protect the confidentiality and integrity of interactive operator sessions that connect to the local or remote (operated by a service provider) SWIFT infrastructure or service provider SWIFT-related applications
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.6Ownership: Shared
Identify known vulnerabilities within the local SWIFT environment by implementing a regular vulnerability scanning process and act upon results.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.7Ownership: Shared
Ensure a consistent and effective approach for the customers' messaging monitoring.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.8.5Ownership: Shared
Ensure the protection of the local SWIFT infrastructure from risks exposed by the outsourcing of critical activities.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.8AOwnership: Shared
Ensure outbound transaction activity within the expected bounds of normal business.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.9Ownership: Shared
Restrict transaction activity to validated and approved business counterparties.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 2.11AOwnership: Shared
3. Physically Secure the Environment
Prevent unauthorised physical access to sensitive equipment, workplace environments, hosting sites, and storage.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 3.1Ownership: Shared
4. Prevent Compromise of Credentials
Ensure passwords are sufficiently resistant against common password attacks by implementing and enforcing an effective password policy.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 4.1Ownership: Shared
Prevent that a compromise of a single authentication factor allows access into SWIFT-related systems or applications by implementing multi-factor authentication.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 4.2Ownership: Shared
5. Manage Identities and Segregate Privileges
Enforce the security principles of need-to-know access, least privilege, and separation of duties for operator accounts.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 5.1Ownership: Shared
Ensure the proper management, tracking, and use of connected and disconnected hardware authentication or personal tokens (when tokens are used).
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 5.2Ownership: Shared
To the extent permitted and practicable, ensure the trustworthiness of staff operating the local SWIFT environment by performing regular staff screening.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 5.3AOwnership: Shared
Protect physically and logically the repository of recorded passwords.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 5.4Ownership: Shared
6. Detect Anomalous Activity to Systems or Transaction Records
Ensure that local SWIFT infrastructure is protected against malware and act upon results.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 6.1Ownership: Shared
Ensure the software integrity of the SWIFT-related components and act upon results.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 6.2Ownership: Shared
Ensure the integrity of the database records for the SWIFT messaging interface or the customer connector and act upon results.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 6.3Ownership: Shared
Record security events and detect anomalous actions and operations within the local SWIFT environment.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 6.4Ownership: Shared
Detect and contain anomalous network activity into and within the local or remote SWIFT environment.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 6.5AOwnership: Shared
7. Plan for Incident Response and Information Sharing
Ensure a consistent and effective approach for the management of cyber incidents.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 7.1Ownership: Shared
Ensure all staff are aware of and fulfil their security responsibilities by performing regular awareness activities, and maintain security knowledge of staff with privileged access.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 7.2Ownership: Shared
Validate the operational security configuration and identify security gaps by performing penetration testing.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 7.3AOwnership: Shared
Evaluate the risk and readiness of the organisation based on plausible cyber-attack scenarios.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 7.4AOwnership: Shared
8. Set and Monitor Performance
Ensure availability by formally setting and monitoring the objectives to be achieved
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 8.1Ownership: Shared
Ensure availability, capacity, and quality of services to customers
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 8.4Ownership: Shared
Ensure early availability of SWIFTNet releases and of the FIN standards for proper testing by the customer before going live.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 8.5Ownership: Shared
9. Ensure Availability through Resilience
Providers must ensure that the service remains available for customers in the event of a local disturbance or malfunction.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 9.1Ownership: Shared
Providers must ensure that the service remains available for customers in the event of a site disaster.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 9.2Ownership: Shared
Service bureaux must ensure that the service remains available for their customers in the event of a disturbance, a hazard, or an incident.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 9.3Ownership: Shared
Providers' availability and quality of service is ensured through usage of the recommended SWIFT connectivity packs and the appropriate line bandwidth
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 9.4Ownership: Shared
10. Be Ready in case of Major Disaster
Business continuity is ensured through a documented plan communicated to the potentially affected parties (service bureau and customers).
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 10.1Ownership: Shared
11. Monitor in case of Major Disaster
Ensure a consistent and effective approach for the event monitoring and escalation.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 11.1Ownership: Shared
Ensure a consistent and effective approach for the management of incidents (Problem Management).
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 11.2Ownership: Shared
Ensure an adequate escalation of operational malfunctions in case of customer impact.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 11.4Ownership: Shared
Effective support is offered to customers in case they face problems during their business hours.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 11.5Ownership: Shared
12. Ensure Knowledge is Available
Ensure quality of service to customers through SWIFT certified employees.
ID: SWIFT CSCF v2022 12.1Ownership: Shared
Next steps
Additional articles about Azure Policy:
Regulatory Complianceoverview.
See theinitiative definition structure.
Review other examples atAzure Policy samples.
ReviewUnderstanding policy effects.
Learn how toremediate non-compliant resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources