Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
About keys
Article
2025-02-28
10 contributors
In this article
Azure Key Vault provides two types of resources to store and manage cryptographic keys. Vaults support software-protected and HSM-protected (Hardware Security Module) keys. Managed HSMs only support HSM-protected keys.
Vaults- Vaults provide a low-cost, easy to deploy, multi-tenant, zone-resilient (where available), highly available key management solution suitable for most common cloud application scenarios.
Managed HSMs- Managed HSM provides single-tenant, highly available HSMs to store and manage your cryptographic keys. Most suitable for applications and usage scenarios that handle high value keys. Also helps to meet most stringent security, compliance, and regulatory requirements.
Note
Vaults also allow you to store and manage several types of objects like secrets, certificates and storage account keys, in addition to cryptographic keys.
Cryptographic keys in Key Vault are represented as JSON Web Key [JWK] objects. The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) and JavaScript Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE) specifications are:
JSON Web Key (JWK)
JSON Web Encryption (JWE)
JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)
JSON Web Signature (JWS)
The base JWK/JWA specifications are also extended to enable key types unique to the Azure Key Vault and Managed HSM implementations.
HSM Keys in vaults are protected by HSMs; Software keys aren't protected by HSMs.
Keys stored in vaults benefit from robust protection usingFIPS 140 validated HSM. There are two distinct HSM platforms available: 1, which protects key versions withFIPS 140-2 Level 2, and 2, which protects keys withFIPS 140-2 Level 3HSMs depending on when the key was created. All new keys and key versions are now created using platform 2 (except UK geo). To determine which HSM Platform is protecting a key version, get it'shsmPlatform.
Managed HSM usesFIPS 140-2 Level 3validated HSM modules to protect your keys. Each HSM pool is an isolated single-tenant instance with its ownsecurity domainproviding complete cryptographic isolation from all other HSMs sharing the same hardware infrastructure. Managed HSM keys are protected in single-tenant HSM-pools. You can import an RSA, EC, and symmetric key, in soft form or by exporting from a supported HSM device. You can also generate keys in HSM pools. When you import HSM keys using the method described in theBYOK (bring your own key) specification, it enables secure transportation key material into Managed HSM pools.
For more information on geographical boundaries, seeMicrosoft Azure Trust Center
Key types and protection methods
Key Vault Premium and Standard support RSA and EC keys. Managed HSM supports RSA, EC, and symmetric keys.
HSM-protected keys
Software-protected keys
Compliance
Quantum-resistant, Quantum-safe, or Post-quantum Cryptography
"Quantum-resistant", "quantum-safe", and "post-quantum" cryptography are all terms used to describe cryptographic algorithms believed to be resistant to cryptanalytic attacks from both classical and quantum computers. OCT-HSM 256-bit keys used with the AES algorithms offered by Managed HSM are quantum-resistant. For more information, seeThe Commercial National Security Algorithm Suite 2.0 and Quantum Computing FAQ.
SeeKey types, algorithms, and operationsfor details about each key type, algorithms, operations, attributes, and tags.
Usage Scenarios
Next steps
Key management in Azure
About Key Vault
About Managed HSM
About secrets
About certificates
Key Vault REST API overview
Authentication, requests, and responses
Key Vault Developer's Guide
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources