Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Add-ons, extensions, and other integrations with Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Article
2025-04-02
20 contributors
In this article
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) provides extra functionality for your clusters using add-ons and extensions. Open-source projects and third parties provide by more integrations that are commonly used with AKS. TheAKS support policydoesn't support the open-source and third-party integrations.
Add-ons
Add-ons are a fully supported way to provide extra capabilities for your AKS cluster. The installation, configuration, and lifecycle of add-ons are managed on AKS. You can use theaz aks enable-addonscommand to install an add-on or manage the add-ons for your cluster.
az aks enable-addons
AKS uses the following rules for applying updates to installed add-ons:
Only an add-on's patch version can be upgraded within a Kubernetes minor version. The add-on's major/minor version isn't upgraded within the same Kubernetes minor version.
The major/minor version of the add-on is only upgraded when moving to a later Kubernetes minor version.
Any breaking or behavior changes to the add-on are announced well before, usually 60 days, for a GA minor version of Kubernetes on AKS.
You can patch add-ons weekly with every new release of AKS, which is announced in the release notes. You can control AKS releases using themaintenance windowsandrelease tracker.
Exceptions
Add-ons are upgraded to a new major/minor version (or breaking change) within a Kubernetes minor version if either the cluster's Kubernetes version or the add-on version are in preview.
There can be unavoidable circumstances, such as CVE security patches or critical bug fixes, when you need to update an add-on within a GA minor version.
Available add-ons
Extensions
Cluster extensions build on top of certain Helm charts and provide an Azure Resource Manager-driven experience for installation and lifecycle management of different Azure capabilities on top of your Kubernetes cluster.
For more information on the specific cluster extensions for AKS, seeDeploy and manage cluster extensions for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
For more information on available cluster extensions, seeCurrently available extensions.
Difference between extensions and add-ons
Extensions and add-ons are both supported ways to add functionality to your AKS cluster. When you install an add-on, the functionality is added as part of the AKS resource provider in the Azure API. When you install an extension, the functionality is added as part of a separate resource provider in the Azure API.
GitHub Actions
GitHub Actions help you automate your software development workflows from within GitHub.
For more information on using GitHub Actions with Azure, seeGitHub Actions for Azure.
For an example of using GitHub Actions with an AKS cluster, seeBuild, test, and deploy containers to Azure Kubernetes Service using GitHub Actions.
Open-source and third-party integrations
There are many open-source and third-party integrations you can install on your AKS cluster. TheAKS support policydoesn't cover self-managed installations of the following projects. Some of these projects have managed experiences built on top of them (for example in the case of Prometheus, Grafana, and Istio). These managed experiences are noted in the 'More Details' column.
Important
Open-source software is mentioned throughout AKS documentation and samples. Software that you deploy is excluded from AKS service-level agreements, limited warranty, and Azure support. As you use open-source technology alongside AKS, consult the support options available from the respective communities and project maintainers to develop a plan.
For example, theRay GitHub repositorydescribes several platforms that vary in response time, purpose, and support level.
Microsoft takes responsibility for building the open-source packages that we deploy on AKS. That responsibility includes having complete ownership of the build, scan, sign, validate, and hotfix process, along with control over the binaries in container images. For more information, seeVulnerability management for AKSandAKS support coverage.
Third-party integrations for Windows containers
Microsoft collaborates with partners to ensure the build, test, deployment, configuration, and monitoring of your applications perform optimally with Windows containers on AKS.
For more information, seeWindows AKS partner solutions.
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources