Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Choose a big data storage technology in Azure
Article
2024-10-04
31 contributors
In this article
This article compares options for data storage for big data solutions—specifically, data storage for bulk data ingestion and batch processing, as opposed toanalytical datastoresor real-time streaming ingestion.
What are your options when choosing data storage in Azure?
There are several options for ingesting data into Azure, depending on your needs.
Unified logical data lake:
OneLake in Microsoft Fabric
File storage:
Azure Storage blobs
Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
NoSQL databases:
Azure Cosmos DB
HBase on HDInsight
Analytical databases:
Azure Data Explorer
OneLake in Fabric
OneLake in Fabricis a unified and logical data lake that's tailored for the entire organization. It serves as the central hub for all analytics data and is included with every Microsoft Fabric tenant. OneLake in Fabric is built on the foundation of Data Lake Storage Gen2.
OneLake in Fabric:
Supports structured and unstructured file types.
Stores all tabular data in Delta Parquet format.
Provides a single data lake within tenant boundaries that's governed by default.
Supports the creation of workspaces within a tenant so that an organization can distribute ownership and access policies.
Supports the creation of various data items, such as lakehouses and warehouses, from which you can access data.
OneLake in Fabric serves as the common storage location for ingestion, transformation, real-time insights, and business intelligence visualizations. It centralizes various Fabric services and stores data items that all workloads use in Fabric. To choose the right datastore for your Fabric workloads, seeFabric decision guide: choose a datastore.
Azure Storage blobs
Azure Storage is a managed storage service that is highly available, secure, durable, scalable, and redundant. Microsoft takes care of maintenance and handles critical problems for you. Azure Storage is the most ubiquitous storage solution Azure provides, due to the number of services and tools that can be used with it.
There are various Azure Storage services you can use to store data. The most flexible option for storing blobs from many data sources isBlob storage. Blobs are basically files. They store pictures, documents, HTML files, virtual hard disks (VHDs), big data such as logs, database backups—pretty much anything. Blobs are stored in containers, which are similar to folders. A container provides a grouping of a set of blobs. A storage account can contain an unlimited number of containers, and a container can store an unlimited number of blobs.
Azure Storage is a good choice for big data and analytics solutions, because of its flexibility, high availability, and low cost. It provides hot, cool, and archive storage tiers for different use cases. For more information, seeAzure Blob Storage: Hot, cool, and archive storage tiers.
Azure Blob storage can be accessed from Hadoop (available through HDInsight). HDInsight can use a blob container in Azure Storage as the default file system for the cluster. Through a Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) interface provided by a WASB driver, the full set of components in HDInsight can operate directly on structured or unstructured data stored as blobs. Azure Blob storage can also be accessed via Azure Synapse Analytics using its PolyBase feature.
Other features that make Azure Storage a good choice are:
Multiple concurrency strategies.
Disaster recovery and high-availability options.
Encryption at rest.
Azure role-based access control (RBAC)to control access using Microsoft Entra users and groups.
Data Lake Storage Gen2
Data Lake Storage Gen2is a single, centralized repository where you can store all your data, both structured and unstructured. A data lake enables your organization to quickly and more easily store, access, and analyze a wide variety of data in a single location. With a data lake, you don't need to conform your data to fit an existing structure. Instead, you can store your data in its raw or native format, usually as files or as binary large objects (blobs).
Data Lake Storage Gen2 converges the capabilities of Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1 with Azure Blob Storage. For example, Data Lake Storage Gen2 provides file system semantics, file-level security, and scale. Because these capabilities are built on Blob storage, you also get low-cost, tiered storage, with high availability/disaster recovery capabilities.
Data Lake Storage Gen2 makes Azure Storage the foundation for building enterprise data lakes on Azure. Designed from the start to service multiple petabytes of information while sustaining hundreds of gigabits of throughput, Data Lake Storage Gen2 allows you to easily manage massive amounts of data.
Azure Cosmos DB
Azure Cosmos DBis Microsoft's globally distributed multi-model database. Azure Cosmos DB guarantees single-digit-millisecond latencies at the 99th percentile anywhere in the world, provides multiple well-defined consistency models to fine-tune performance, and guarantees high availability with multi-homing capabilities.
Azure Cosmos DB is schema-agnostic. It automatically indexes all the data without requiring you to deal with schema and index management. It's also multi-model, natively supporting document, key-value, graph, and column-family data models.
Azure Cosmos DB features:
Geo-replication
Elastic scaling of throughput and storageworldwide
Five well-defined consistency levels
HBase on HDInsight
Apache HBaseis an open-source, NoSQL database that is built on Hadoop and modeled after Google BigTable. HBase provides random access and strong consistency for large amounts of unstructured and semi-structured data in a schemaless database organized by column families.
Data is stored in the rows of a table, and data within a row is grouped by column family. HBase is schemaless in the sense that neither the columns nor the type of data stored in them need to be defined before using them. The open-source code scales linearly to handle petabytes of data on thousands of nodes. It can rely on data redundancy, batch processing, and other features that are provided by distributed applications in the Hadoop ecosystem.
TheHDInsight implementationuses the scale-out architecture of HBase to provide automatic sharding of tables, strong consistency for reads and writes, and automatic failover. Performance is enhanced by in-memory caching for reads and high-throughput streaming for writes. In most cases, you want tocreate the HBase cluster inside a virtual networkso other HDInsight clusters and applications can directly access the tables.
Azure Data Explorer
Azure Data Exploreris a fast and highly scalable data exploration service for log and telemetry data. It helps you handle the many data streams emitted by modern software so you can collect, store, and analyze data. Azure Data Explorer is ideal for analyzing large volumes of diverse data from any data source, such as websites, applications, IoT devices, and more. This data is used for diagnostics, monitoring, reporting, machine learning, and additional analytics capabilities. Azure Data Explorer makes it simple to ingest this data and enables you to do complex unplanned queries on the data in seconds.
Azure Data Explorer can be linearlyscaled outfor increasing ingestion and query processing throughput. An Azure Data Explorer cluster can bedeployed to a Virtual Networkfor enabling private networks.
Key selection criteria
To narrow the choices, start by answering these questions:
Do you need a unified data lake with multicloud support, robust governance, and seamless integration with analytical tools? If yes, then choose OneLake in Fabric for simplified data management and enhanced collaboration.
Do you need a unified data lake with multicloud support, robust governance, and seamless integration with analytical tools? If yes, then choose OneLake in Fabric for simplified data management and enhanced collaboration.
Do you need managed, high-speed, cloud-based storage for any type of text or binary data? If yes, then choose one of the file storage or analytics options.
Do you need managed, high-speed, cloud-based storage for any type of text or binary data? If yes, then choose one of the file storage or analytics options.
Do you need file storage that is optimized for parallel analytics workloads and high throughput/IOPS? If yes, then choose an option that is tuned to analytics workload performance.
Do you need file storage that is optimized for parallel analytics workloads and high throughput/IOPS? If yes, then choose an option that is tuned to analytics workload performance.
Do you need to store unstructured or semi-structured data in a schemaless database? If so, select one of the nonrelational or analytics options. Compare options for indexing and database models. Depending on the type of data you need to store, the primary database models might be the largest factor.
Do you need to store unstructured or semi-structured data in a schemaless database? If so, select one of the nonrelational or analytics options. Compare options for indexing and database models. Depending on the type of data you need to store, the primary database models might be the largest factor.
Can you use the service in your region? Check the regional availability for each Azure service. For more information, seeProducts available by region.
Can you use the service in your region? Check the regional availability for each Azure service. For more information, seeProducts available by region.
Capability matrix
The following tables summarize the key differences in capabilities.
OneLake in Fabric capabilities
File storage capabilities
NoSQL database capabilities
Analytical database capabilities
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Zoiner Tejada| CEO and Architect
Next steps
What is Fabric
Introduction to end-to-end analytics using Fabric
Azure Cloud Storage Solutions and Services
Review your storage options
Introduction to Azure Storage
Introduction to Azure Data Explorer
Related resources
Big data architectures
Big data architecture style
Understand data store models
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources