Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitor Azure Private Link
Article
2025-03-25
1 contributor
In this article
Azure Monitor collects and aggregates metrics and logs from your system to monitor availability, performance, and resilience, and notify you of issues affecting your system. You can use the Azure portal, PowerShell, Azure CLI, REST API, or client libraries to set up and view monitoring data.
Different metrics and logs are available for different resource types. This article describes the types of monitoring data you can collect for this service and ways to analyze that data.
Collect data with Azure Monitor
This table describes how you can collect data to monitor your service, and what you can do with the data once collected:
For the list of all of the data supported by Azure Monitor, see:
Azure Monitor supported metrics
Azure Monitor supported resource logs
Use Azure Monitor tools to analyze the data
These Azure Monitor tools are available in the Azure portal to help you analyze monitoring data:
Some Azure services have a built-in monitoring dashboard in the Azure portal. These dashboards are calledinsights, and you can find them in theInsightssection of Azure Monitor in the Azure portal.
Some Azure services have a built-in monitoring dashboard in the Azure portal. These dashboards are calledinsights, and you can find them in theInsightssection of Azure Monitor in the Azure portal.
Metrics explorerallows you to view and analyze metrics for Azure resources. For more information, seeAnalyze metrics with Azure Monitor metrics explorer.
Metrics explorerallows you to view and analyze metrics for Azure resources. For more information, seeAnalyze metrics with Azure Monitor metrics explorer.
Log Analyticsallows you to query and analyze log data using theKusto query language (KQL). For more information, seeGet started with log queries in Azure Monitor.
Log Analyticsallows you to query and analyze log data using theKusto query language (KQL). For more information, seeGet started with log queries in Azure Monitor.
The Azure portal has a user interface for viewing and basic searches of theactivity log. To do more in-depth analysis, route the data to Azure Monitor logs and run more complex queries in Log Analytics.
The Azure portal has a user interface for viewing and basic searches of theactivity log. To do more in-depth analysis, route the data to Azure Monitor logs and run more complex queries in Log Analytics.
Application Insightsmonitors the availability, performance, and usage of your web applications, so you can identify and diagnose errors without waiting for a user to report them.Application Insights includes connection points to various development tools and integrates with Visual Studio to support your DevOps processes. For more information, seeApplication monitoring for App Service.
Application Insightsmonitors the availability, performance, and usage of your web applications, so you can identify and diagnose errors without waiting for a user to report them.Application Insights includes connection points to various development tools and integrates with Visual Studio to support your DevOps processes. For more information, seeApplication monitoring for App Service.
Tools that allow more complex visualization include:
Dashboardsthat let you combine different kinds of data into a single pane in the Azure portal.
Workbooks, customizable reports that you can create in the Azure portal. Workbooks can include text, metrics, and log queries.
Grafana, an open platform tool that excels in operational dashboards. You can use Grafana to create dashboards that include data from multiple sources other than Azure Monitor.
Power BI, a business analytics service that provides interactive visualizations across various data sources. You can configure Power BI to automatically import log data from Azure Monitor to take advantage of these visualizations.
Export Azure Monitor data
You can export data out of Azure Monitor into other tools using:
Metrics:Use theREST API for metricsto extract metric data from the Azure Monitor metrics database. For more information, seeAzure Monitor REST API reference.
Metrics:Use theREST API for metricsto extract metric data from the Azure Monitor metrics database. For more information, seeAzure Monitor REST API reference.
Logs:Use the REST API or theassociated client libraries.
Logs:Use the REST API or theassociated client libraries.
TheLog Analytics workspace data export.
TheLog Analytics workspace data export.
To get started with the Azure Monitor REST API, seeAzure monitoring REST API walkthrough.
Use Kusto queries to analyze log data
You can analyze Azure Monitor Log data using the Kusto query language (KQL). For more information, seeLog queries in Azure Monitor.
Use Azure Monitor alerts to notify you of issues
Azure Monitor alertsallow you to identify and address issues in your system, and proactively notify you when specific conditions are found in your monitoring data before your customers notice them. You can alert on any metric or log data source in the Azure Monitor data platform. There aredifferent types of Azure Monitor alertsdepending on the services you're monitoring and the monitoring data you're collecting. SeeChoosing the right type of alert rule.
For examples of common alerts for Azure resources, seeSample log alert queries.
Implementing alerts at scale
For some services, you can monitor at scale by applying the same metric alert rule to multiple resources of the same type that exist in the same Azure region.Azure Monitor Baseline Alerts (AMBA)provides a semi-automated method of implementing important platform metric alerts, dashboards, and guidelines at scale.
Get personalized recommendations using Azure Advisor
For some services, if critical conditions or imminent changes occur during resource operations, an alert displays on the serviceOverviewpage in the portal. You can find more information and recommended fixes for the alert inAdvisor recommendationsunderMonitoringin the left menu. During normal operations, no advisor recommendations display.
For more information on Azure Advisor, seeAzure Advisor overview.
Related content
Azure Private Link monitoring data reference
Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources