Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Use Azure portal to export a template
Article
2025-02-12
6 contributors
In this article
To assist with creating Azure Resource Manager templates, you can export a template from existing resources as either aBicep fileor anARM JSON template. The exported template helps you understand the syntax and properties needed for resource deployment. To streamline future deployments, use the exported template as a starting point and customize it for your needs. While the export process generates a functional template, most exported templates require adjustments before they can be used for deployment.
Resource Manager enables you to pick one or more resources for exporting to a template. You can focus on exactly the resources you need in the template.
This article shows how to export templates through theportal. For other options, see:
Export template with Azure CLI
Export template with Azure PowerShell
REST API export from resource groupandREST API export from deployment history.
Choose the right export option
There are two ways to export a template:
Export from resource group or resource. This option generates a new template from existing resources. The exported template is a "snapshot" of the current state of the resource group. You can export an entire resource group or specific resources within that resource group.
Export from resource group or resource. This option generates a new template from existing resources. The exported template is a "snapshot" of the current state of the resource group. You can export an entire resource group or specific resources within that resource group.
Save from history. This option supports exporting only ARM JSON templates. It retrieves an exact copy of the template used for deployment, allowing you to select a specific deployment from the deployment history. After exporting, you candecompilethem into to Bicep files.
Save from history. This option supports exporting only ARM JSON templates. It retrieves an exact copy of the template used for deployment, allowing you to select a specific deployment from the deployment history. After exporting, you candecompilethem into to Bicep files.
Depending on the option you choose, the exported templates have different qualities.
Export the template from a resource group or resource, when:
You need to capture changes to the resources that were made after the original deployment.
You want to select which resources are exported.
The resources weren't created with a template.
Export the template from the history, when:
You want an easy-to-reuse template.
You don't need to include changes you made after the original deployment.
Limitations
Export is not guaranteed to succeed. Export is not a reliable way to turn pre-existing resources into templates that are usable in production. It is better to create resources from scratch using hand-writtenBicep file,ARM templateorterraform.
When exporting from a resource group or resource, the exported template is generated from thepublished schemasfor each resource type. Occasionally, the schema doesn't have the latest version for a resource type. Check your exported template to make sure it includes the properties you need. If necessary, edit the exported template to use the API version you need.
Some password parameters might be missing from the exported templates. You need to checktemplate reference, and manually add these parameters before you can use the templates to deploy resources.
The export template feature doesn't support exporting Azure Data Factory resources. To learn about how you can export Data Factory resources, seeCopy or clone a data factory in Azure Data Factory.
To export resources created through classic deployment model, you mustmigrate them to the Resource Manager deployment model.
If you get a warning when exporting a template that indicates a resource type wasn't exported, you can still discover the properties for that resource. For resource properties, seetemplate reference. You can also look at theAzure REST APIfor the resource type.
There's a limit of 200 resources in the resource group you create the exported template for. If you attempt to export a resource group that has more than 200 resources, the error messageExport template is not supported for resource groups more than 200 resourcesis shown.
Export template is not supported for resource groups more than 200 resources
Export template from a resource group
To export one or more resources from a resource group:
Select the resource group that contains the resources you want to export.
Select the resource group that contains the resources you want to export.
Select one or more resources by selecting the checkboxes. To select all, select the checkbox on the left ofName. TheExport templatefrom the top menu only becomes enabled after you've selected at least one resource.
Select one or more resources by selecting the checkboxes. To select all, select the checkbox on the left ofName. TheExport templatefrom the top menu only becomes enabled after you've selected at least one resource.

SelectExport templatefrom the top menu. TheExport templatefrom the left menu exports all the resources in the group to a template.
SelectExport templatefrom the top menu. TheExport templatefrom the left menu exports all the resources in the group to a template.
SelectARM Template. The exported template is displayed, and is available to download and deploy.Include parametersis selected by default.  When selected, all template parameters are included when the template is generated. If you'd like to author your own parameters, toggle this checkbox to not include them.
SelectARM Template. The exported template is displayed, and is available to download and deploy.

Include parametersis selected by default.  When selected, all template parameters are included when the template is generated. If you'd like to author your own parameters, toggle this checkbox to not include them.
Export template from a resource
To export one resource:
Select the resource group containing the resource you want to export.
Select the resource group containing the resource you want to export.
Select the resource that you want to export to open the resource.
Select the resource that you want to export to open the resource.
For that resource, selectExport templatein the left pane.
For that resource, selectExport templatein the left pane.

The exported template is displayed, and is available to download and deploy. The template only contains the single resource.Include parametersis selected by default.  When selected, all template parameters are included when the template is generated. If you’d like to author your own parameters, toggle this checkbox to not include them.
The exported template is displayed, and is available to download and deploy. The template only contains the single resource.Include parametersis selected by default.  When selected, all template parameters are included when the template is generated. If you’d like to author your own parameters, toggle this checkbox to not include them.
Export template after deployment
You can export the template that was used to deploy existing resources. The template you get is exactly the one that was used for deployment.
Select the resource group you want to export.
Select the resource group you want to export.
Select the link underDeployments.
Select the link underDeployments.

Select one of the deployments from the deployment history.
Select one of the deployments from the deployment history.

SelectTemplate. The template used for this deployment is displayed, and is available for download.
SelectTemplate. The template used for this deployment is displayed, and is available for download.

Next steps
Learn how to export Bicep files with theAzure portal.
Learn how to export templates withAzure CLI,Azure PowerShell, orREST API.
To learn the Resource Manager template syntax, seeUnderstand the structure and syntax of Azure Resource Manager templates.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources