Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Deploy to Azure services
Article
2024-07-15
17 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
Azure Pipelines combines continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) to test and build your code and ship it to any target. While you don't have to use Azure services with Azure Pipelines, you can use Azure Pipelines to integrate your CI/CD process with most Azure services. Azure Pipelines CI/CD helps you take the best advantage of your Azure services.
The following articles describe how different Azure services support CI and CD with Azure Pipelines.
Azure App Configuration
Push settings to App Configuration with Azure Pipelines
Pull settings from App Configuration with Azure Pipelines
Azure App Service
Deploy to App Service using Azure Pipelines
Deploy a custom container to Azure App Service with Azure Pipelines
Use Azure Pipelines to build and deploy a Python web app to Azure App Service
Azure Container Registry
Build and push Docker images to Azure Container Registry
Azure Cosmos DB
Set up a CI/CD pipeline with the Azure Cosmos DB Emulator build task in Azure DevOps
Azure Data Factory
Configure Azure Databricks and Azure Data Factory
Azure Government
Deploy an app in Azure Government with Azure Pipelines
Azure IoT Edge
Continuous integration and continuous deployment to Azure IoT Edge devices
Azure Kubernetes Service
Build and deploy to Azure Kubernetes Service with Azure Pipelines
Azure Monitor
Query Azure Monitor Alerts
Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server
Azure Pipelines for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server
Azure Service Fabric
Tutorial: Set up CI/CD for a Service Fabric application by using Azure Pipelines
Azure Static Web Apps
Quickstart: Build your first static web app
Azure SQL Database
Deploy to Azure SQL Database
Azure Virtual Machines
Quickstart: Use an ARM template to deploy a Linux web app to Azure
Deploy to Azure VMs using deployment groups in Azure Pipelines
Tutorial: Deploy a Java app to a virtual machine scale set
For a complete list of Azure Pipelines tasks, seeBuild and release tasksand theAzure Pipelines task reference.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources