Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Department of Defense (DoD) in Azure Government
Article
2024-08-15
11 contributors
In this article
Overview
Azure Government is used by the US Department of Defense (DoD) entities to deploy a broad range of workloads and solutions. Some of these workloads can be subject to the DoD Cloud ComputingSecurity Requirements Guide(SRG) Impact Level 4 (IL4) and Impact Level 5 (IL5) restrictions. Azure Government was the first hyperscale cloud services platform to be awarded a DoD IL5 Provisional Authorization (PA) by the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). For more information about DISA and DoD IL5, seeDepartment of Defense (DoD) Impact Level 5compliance documentation.
Azure Government offers the following regions to DoD mission owners and their partners:
Azure Government regions US Gov Arizona, US Gov Texas, and US Gov Virginia (US Gov regions) are intended for US federal (including DoD), state, and local government agencies, and their partners. Azure Government regions US DoD Central and US DoD East (US DoD regions) are reserved for exclusive DoD use. Separate DoD IL5 PAs are in place for US Gov regions vs. US DoD regions. For service availability in Azure Government, seeProducts available by region.
The primary differences between DoD IL5 PAs that are in place for US Gov regions vs. US DoD regions are:
IL5 compliance scope:US Gov regions have many more services authorized provisionally at DoD IL5, which in turn enables DoD mission owners and their partners to deploy more realistic applications in these regions.For a complete list of services in scope for DoD IL5 PA in US Gov regions, seeAzure Government services by audit scope.For a complete list of services in scope for DoD IL5 in US DoD regions, seeUS DoD regions IL5 audit scopein this article.
For a complete list of services in scope for DoD IL5 PA in US Gov regions, seeAzure Government services by audit scope.
For a complete list of services in scope for DoD IL5 in US DoD regions, seeUS DoD regions IL5 audit scopein this article.
IL5 configuration:US DoD regions are reserved for exclusive DoD use. Therefore, no extra configuration is needed in US DoD regions when deploying Azure services intended for IL5 workloads. In contrast, some Azure services deployed in US Gov regions require extra configuration to meet DoD IL5 compute and storage isolation requirements, as explained inIsolation guidelines for Impact Level 5 workloads.
Note
If you are subject to DoD IL5 requirements, we recommend that you prioritize US Gov regions for your workloads, as follows:
New deployments:Choose US Gov regions for your new deployments. Doing so will allow you to benefit from the latest cloud innovations while meeting your DoD IL5 isolation requirements.
Existing deployments:If you have existing deployments in US DoD regions, we encourage you to migrate these workloads to US Gov regions to take advantage of additional services.
Azure providesextensive support for tenant isolationacross compute, storage, and networking services to segregate each customer's applications and data. This approach provides the scale and economic benefits of multi-tenant cloud services while rigorously helping prevent other customers from accessing your data or applications.
Hyper-scale cloud also offers a feature-rich environment incorporating the latest cloud innovations such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, IoT services, intelligent edge, and many more to help DoD mission owners implement their mission objectives. Using Azure Government cloud capabilities, you benefit from rapid feature growth, resiliency, and the cost-effective operation of the hyper-scale cloud while still obtaining the levels of isolation, security, and confidence required to handle workloads subject to FedRAMP High, DoD IL4, and DoD IL5 requirements.
US Gov regions IL5 audit scope
For a complete list of services in scope for DoD IL5 PA in US Gov regions (US Gov Arizona, US Gov Texas, and US Gov Virginia), seeAzure Government services by audit scope.
US DoD regions IL5 audit scope
The following services are in scope for DoD IL5 PA in US DoD regions (US DoD Central and US DoD East):
API Management
Application Gateway
Microsoft Entra ID (Free
Microsoft Entra ID (P1 + P2)
Azure Analysis Services
Azure Backup
Azure Cache for Redis
Azure Cloud Services
Azure Cosmos DB
Azure Database for MySQL
Azure Database for PostgreSQL
Azure DNS
Azure ExpressRoute
Azure Firewall
Azure Front Door
Azure Functions
Azure HDInsight
Azure Lab Services
Azure Logic Apps
Azure Managed Applications
Azure Media Services
Azure Monitor
Azure Resource Manager
Azure Scheduler(replaced byAzure Logic Apps)
Azure Service Fabric
Azure Service Manager (RDFE)
Azure Site Recovery
Azure SQL Database
Azure Synapse Analytics
Batch
Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement
Event Grid
Event Hubs
Import/Export
Key Vault
Load Balancer
Microsoft Azure portal
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint(formerly Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection)
Microsoft Graph
Microsoft Stream
Network Watcher
Power Apps
Power Pages
Power Automate(formerly Microsoft Flow)
Power BI
Power BI Embedded
Service Bus
SQL Server Stretch Database
Storage: Blobs(incl.Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2)
Storage: Disks(incl.managed disks)
Storage: Files
Storage: Queues
Storage: Tables
Traffic Manager
Virtual Machine Scale Sets
Virtual Machines
Virtual Network
VPN Gateway
Web Apps (App Service)
Frequently asked questions
What are the US DoD regions?
Azure Government regions US DoD Central and US DoD East (US DoD regions) are physically separated Azure Government regions reserved for exclusive use by the DoD. They reside on the same isolated network as Azure Government regions US Gov Arizona, US Gov Texas, and US Gov Virginia (US Gov regions) and use the same identity model. Both the network and identity model are separate from Azure commercial.
What is the difference between US Gov regions and US DoD regions?
Azure Government is a US government community cloud providing services for federal, state and local government customers, tribal entities, and other entities subject to various US government regulations such as CJIS, ITAR, and others. All Azure Government regions are designed to meet the security requirements for DoD IL5 workloads. They're deployed on a separate and isolated network and use a separate identity model from Azure commercial regions. US DoD regions achieve DoD IL5 tenant separation requirements by being dedicated exclusively to DoD. In US Gov regions, some services require extra configuration to meet DoD IL5 compute and storage isolation requirements, as explained inIsolation guidelines for Impact Level 5 workloads.
How do US Gov regions support IL5 data?
Azure providesextensive support for tenant isolationacross compute, storage, and networking services to segregate each customer's applications and data. This approach provides the scale and economic benefits of multi-tenant cloud services while rigorously helping prevent other customers from accessing your data or applications. Some Azure services deployed in US Gov regions require extra configuration to meet DoD IL5 compute and storage isolation requirements, as explained inIsolation guidelines for Impact Level 5 workloads.
What is IL5 data?
IL5 accommodates controlled unclassified information (CUI) that requires a higher level of protection than is afforded by IL4 as deemed necessary by the information owner, public law, or other government regulations. IL5 also supports unclassified National Security Systems (NSS). This impact level accommodates NSS and CUI categorizations based on CNSSI 1253 up to moderate confidentiality and moderate integrity (M-M-x). For more information on IL5 data, seeDoD IL5 overview.
What is the difference between IL4 and IL5 data?
IL4 data is controlled unclassified information (CUI) that may include data subject to export control, protected health information, and other data requiring explicit CUI designation (for example, For Official Use Only, Law Enforcement Sensitive, and Sensitive Security Information).
IL5 data includes CUI that requires a higher level of protection as deemed necessary by the information owner, public law, or government regulation. IL5 data is inclusive of unclassified National Security Systems.
Do Azure Government regions support classified data such as IL6?
No. Azure Government regions support only unclassified data up to and including IL5. In contrast,IL6 datais defined as classified information up to Secret, and can be accommodated inAzure Government Secret.
What DoD organizations can use Azure Government?
All Azure Government regions are built to support DoD customers, including:
The Office of the Secretary of Defense
The Joint Chiefs of Staff
The Joint Staff
The Defense Agencies
Department of Defense Field Activities
The Department of the Army
The Department of the Navy (including the United States Marine Corps)
The Department of the Air Force
The United States Coast Guard
The unified combatant commands
Other offices, agencies, activities, and commands under the control or supervision of any approved entity named above
What services are available in Azure Government?
For service availability in Azure Government, seeProducts available by region.
What services are part of your IL5 authorization scope?
For a complete list of services in scope for DoD IL5 PA in US Gov regions, seeAzure Government services by audit scope. For a complete list of services in scope for DoD IL5 PA in US DoD regions, seeUS DoD regions IL5 audit scopein this article.
Next steps
Acquiring and accessing Azure Government
How to buy Azure Government
Get started with Azure Government
Azure Government Blog
Azure Government security
Azure Government services by audit scope
Isolation guidelines for Impact Level 5 workloads
DoD Impact Level 4
DoD Impact Level 5
DoD Impact Level 6
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources