Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure OpenAI Service and features in Azure Government
Article
2025-04-08
1 contributor
In this article
This article highlights the differences when using Azure OpenAI in Azure Government as compared to the commercial cloud offering. Learn more about the Azure OpenAI Service itself inAzure OpenAI Service documentation.
Azure OpenAI models
Learn more about the different capabilities of each model inAzure OpenAI Service models. For customers withBusiness Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) considerations, take careful note of the deployment types, regions, and model availability as not all model/type combinations are available in both regions.
The following sections show model availability by region and deployment type. Models and versions not listed are not currently available in Azure Government. For general limits, quotas, and other details refer toAzure OpenAI Service quotas and limits.
Standard deployment model availability
To request quota increases for these models, submit a request athttps://aka.ms/AOAIGovQuota. Note the following maximum quota limits allowed via that form:
Provisioned deployment model availability
[NOTE]
Provisioned Throughput Units (PTUs) are different from standard quota in Azure OpenAI and are not available by default in Azure Government. To learn more about this offering contact your Microsoft Account Team.
Azure OpenAI features
The following feature differences exist when comparing Azure OpenAI in Azure Government vs commercial cloud.
AI Foundry Portal - ai.azure.us
Azure OpenAI Studio - aoai.azure.us
Azure portal - portal.azure.us
Provisioned deployments in Azure Government
The following guide walks you through setting up a provisioned deployment with your Azure OpenAI Service resource in Azure Government.
Prerequisites
An Azure Government subscription
An Azure OpenAI resource
An approved quota for a provisioned deployment and purchased a commitment
Managing provisioned throughput commitments
For Azure OpenAI in Azure Government, provisioned throughput deployments require prepurchased commitments created and managed from theManage Commitmentsview in Azure OpenAI Studio. You can navigate to this view by selectingManage Commitmentsfrom the Quota pane.
From the Manage Commitments view, you can do several things:
Purchase new commitments or edit existing commitments.
Monitor all commitments in your subscription.
Identify and take action on commitments that might cause unexpected billing.
Important
A new commitment is billed up-front for the entire term. If the renewal settings are set to auto-renew, then you will be billed again on each renewal date based on the renewal settings.
Important
When you add PTUs to a commitment, they will be billed immediately, at a pro-rated amount from the current date to the end of the existing commitment term. Adding PTUs does not reset the commitment term.
Changing renewal settings
Commitment renewal settings can be changed at any time before the expiration date of your commitment.
Important
If you allow a commitment to expire or decrease in size such that the deployments under the resource require more PTUs than you have in your resource commitment, you will receive hourly overage charges for any excess PTUs.  For example, a resource that has deployments that total 500 PTUs and a commitment for 300 PTUs will generate hourly overage charges for 200 PTUs.
Common commitment management scenarios
Discontinue use of provisioned throughput
To end use of provisioned throughput and prevent hourly overage charges after commitment expiration, two steps must be taken:
Set the renewal policy on all commitments toDon't autorenew.
Delete the provisioned deployments using the quota.
Move a commitment/deployment to a new resource in the same subscription/region
It isn't possible in Azure OpenAI Studio to directlymovea deployment or a commitment to a new resource. Instead, a new deployment needs to be created on the target resource and traffic moved to it. This process requires a new commitment purchase on the new resource. Because commitments are charged up-front for a 30-day period, it's necessary to time this move with the expiration of the original commitment to minimize overlap with the new commitment and “double-billing” during the overlap.
There are two approaches that can be taken to implement this transition.
Option 1: No-Overlap Switchover
This option requires some downtime, but requires no extra quota and generates no extra costs.
Option 2: Overlapped Switchover
This option has no downtime by having both existing and new deployments live at the same time. This method also requires having quota available to create the new deployment and  generates extra costs during the overlapped deployments.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources