Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Upgrading from Basic Load Balancer - Guidance
Article
2024-09-30
8 contributors
In this article
Important
On September 30, 2025, Basic Load Balancer will be retired. For more information, see theofficial announcement. If you are currently using Basic Load Balancer, make sure to upgrade to Standard Load Balancer prior to the retirement date. This article will help guide you through the upgrade process.
In this article, we discuss guidance for upgrading your Basic Load Balancer instances to Standard Load Balancer. Standard Load Balancer is recommended for all production instances and provides manykey differencesto your infrastructure.
Steps to complete the upgrade
We recommend the following approach for upgrading to Standard Load Balancer:
Learn about some of thekey differencesbetween Basic Load Balancer and Standard Load Balancer.
Identify the Basic Load Balancer to upgrade.
Create a migration plan for planned downtime.
Perform migration withautomated PowerShell scriptsfor your scenario or create a new Standard Load Balancer with the Basic Load Balancer configurations.
Verify your application and workloads are receiving traffic through the Standard Load Balancer. Then delete your Basic Load Balancer resource.
Basic Load Balancer SKU vs. Standard Load Balancer SKU
This section lists out some key differences between these two Load Balancer SKUs.
For information on limits, seeLoad Balancer limits.
Upgrade using automated scripts (recommended)
Use these PowerShell scripts to help with upgrading from Basic to Standard SKU:
Upgrading a Basic to Standard public load balancer with PowerShell
Upgrade manually
Note
Although manually upgrading your Basic Load Balancer to a Standard Load Balancer using the Portal is an option, we recommend using theautomated script optionabove, due to the number of steps and complexity of the migration. The automation ensures a consistent migration and minimizes downtime to load balanced applications.
When manually migrating from a Basic to Standard SKU Load Balancer, there are a couple key considerations to keep in mind:
It isn't possible to mix Basic and Standard SKU IPs or Load Balancers. All Public IPs associated with a Load Balancer and its backend pool members must match.
Public IP allocation method must be set to 'static' when a Public IP is disassociated from a Load Balancer or Virtual Machine, or the allocated IP will be lost.
Standard SKU public IP addresses are secure by default, requiring that a Network Security Group explicitly allow traffic to any public IPs
Standard SKU Load Balancers block outbound access by default. To enable outbound access, a public load balancer needs an outbound rule for backend members. For private load balancers, either configure a NAT Gateway on the backend pool members' subnet or add instance-level public IP addresses to each backend member.
Suggested order of operations for manually upgrading a Basic Load Balancer in common virtual machine and virtual machine scale set configurations using the Portal:
Change all Public IPs associated with the Basic Load Balancer and backend Virtual Machines to 'static' allocation
For private Load Balancers, record the private IP addresses allocated to the frontend IP configurations
Record the backend pool membership of the Basic Load Balancer
Record the load balancing rules, NAT rules and health probe configuration of the Basic Load Balancer
Create a new Standard SKU Load Balancer, matching the public or private configuration of the Basic Load Balancer. Name the frontend IP configuration something temporary. For public load balancers, use a new Public IP address for the frontend configuration. For guidance, seeCreate a Public Load Balancer in the PortalorCreate an Internal Load Balancer in the Portal
Duplicate the Basic SKU Load Balancer configuration for the following:Backend pool namesBackend pool membership (virtual machines and virtual machine scale sets)Health probesLoad balancing rules - use the temporary frontend configurationNAT rules - use the temporary frontend configuration
Backend pool names
Backend pool membership (virtual machines and virtual machine scale sets)
Health probes
Load balancing rules - use the temporary frontend configuration
NAT rules - use the temporary frontend configuration
For public load balancers, if you don't have one already,create a new Network Security Groupwith allow rules for the traffic coming through the Load Balancer rules
For Virtual Machine Scale Set backends, remove the Load Balancer association in the Networking settings andupdate the instances
Delete the Basic Load BalancerNoteFor Virtual Machine Scale Set backends, you will need to remove the load balancer association in the Networking settings. Once removed, you will also need toupdate the instances
Note
For Virtual Machine Scale Set backends, you will need to remove the load balancer association in the Networking settings. Once removed, you will also need toupdate the instances
Upgrade all Public IPspreviously associated with the Basic Load Balancer and backend Virtual Machines to Standard SKU. For Virtual Machine Scale Sets, remove any instance-level public IP configuration, update the instances, then add a new one with Standard SKU and update the instances again.
Recreate the frontend configurations from the Basic Load Balancer on the newly created Standard Load Balancer, using the same public or private IP addresses as on the Basic Load Balancer
Update the load balancing and NAT rules to use the appropriate frontend configurations
For public Load Balancers,create one or more outbound rulesto enable internet access for backend pools
Remove the temporary frontend configuration
Test that inbound and outbound traffic flow through the new Standard Load Balancer as expected
FAQ
Will the Basic Load Balancer retirement impact Cloud Services Extended Support (CSES) deployments?
No, this retirement won't impact your existing or new deployments on CSES. This means that you can still create and use Basic Load Balancers for CSES deployments. However, we advise using Standard SKU on Azure Resource Manager (ARM) native resources (those that don't depend on CSES) when possible, because Standard has more advantages than Basic.
Next Steps
For guidance on upgrading Basic Public IP addresses to Standard SKUs, see:
Upgrading a Basic Public IP to Standard Public IP - Guidance
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources