Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Prepare for multiple workspaces and tenants in Microsoft Sentinel
Article
2025-03-17
4 contributors
In this article
To prepare for your deployment, you need to determine whether a multiple workspace architecture is relevant for your environment. In this article, you learn how Microsoft Sentinel can extend across multiple workspaces and tenants so you can determine whether this capability suits your organization's needs. This article is part of theDeployment guide for Microsoft Sentinel.
If you've decided to set up your environment to extend across workspaces in the Azure portal, see:
Extend Microsoft Sentinel across workspaces and tenants
Centrally manage multiple Log Analytics workspaces enabled for Microsoft Sentinel with workspace manager
If your organization plans to onboard to the Microsoft Defender portal, see:
Multiple Microsoft Sentinel workspaces in the Defender portal
Microsoft Defender multitenant management
The need to use multiple workspaces
When you onboard Microsoft Sentinel, your first step is to select your Log Analytics workspace. While you can get the full benefit of the Microsoft Sentinel experience with a single workspace, in some cases, you might want to extend your workspace to query and analyze your data across workspaces and tenants.
This table lists some of these scenarios and, when possible, suggests how you might use a single workspace for the scenario.
Resource owners' access to data pertaining to their resources
Regional or subsidiary SOCs' access to data relevant to their parts of the organization
Using a per-subscription default workspace when deploying Microsoft Defender for Cloud
The need for granular access control or retention settings, the solutions for which are relatively new
When determining how many tenants and workspaces to use, consider that most Microsoft Sentinel features operate by using a single workspace or Microsoft Sentinel instance, and Microsoft Sentinel ingests all logs housed within the workspace.
Managed Security Service Provider (MSSP)
In case of an MSSP, many if not all of the above requirements apply, making multiple workspaces, across tenants, the best practice. Specifically, we recommend that you create at least one workspace for each Microsoft Entra tenant to support built-in,service to service data connectorsthat work only within their own Microsoft Entra tenant.
Connectors that are based on diagnostics settings can't be connected to a workspace that isn't located in the same tenant where the resource resides. This applies to connectors such asAzure Firewall,Azure Storage,Azure ActivityorMicrosoft Entra ID.
Connectors that are based on diagnostics settings can't be connected to a workspace that isn't located in the same tenant where the resource resides. This applies to connectors such asAzure Firewall,Azure Storage,Azure ActivityorMicrosoft Entra ID.
Partner data connectorsare often based on API or agent collections, and therefore are not attached to a specific Microsoft Entra tenant.
Partner data connectorsare often based on API or agent collections, and therefore are not attached to a specific Microsoft Entra tenant.
UseAzure Lighthouseto help manage multiple Microsoft Sentinel instances in different tenants.u
Microsoft Sentinel multiple workspace architecture
As implied by the requirements above, there are cases where a single SOC needs to centrally manage and monitor multiple Log Analytics workspaces enabled for Microsoft Sentinel, potentially across Microsoft Entra tenants.
An MSSP Microsoft Sentinel Service.
A global SOC serving multiple subsidiaries, each having its own local SOC.
A SOC monitoring multiple Microsoft Entra tenants within an organization.
To address these cases, Microsoft Sentinel offers multiple-workspace capabilities that enable central monitoring, configuration, and management, providing a single pane of glass across everything covered by the SOC. This diagram shows an example architecture for such use cases.

This model offers significant advantages over a fully centralized model in which all data is copied to a single workspace:
Flexible role assignment to the global and local SOCs, or to the MSSP its customers.
Fewer challenges regarding data ownerships, data privacy and regulatory compliance.
Minimal network latency and charges.
Easy onboarding and offboarding of new subsidiaries or customers.
Next steps
In this article, you learned how Microsoft Sentinel can extend across multiple workspaces and tenants.
Prioritize data connectors
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources