Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
View reservation utilization after purchase
Article
2025-03-26
4 contributors
In this article
You can view reservation utilization percentage and the resources that used the reservation in the Azure portal and in the Cost Management Power BI app.
View utilization in the Azure portal with Azure RBAC access
To view reservation utilization, you must have Azure RBAC access to the reservation or you must have elevated access to manage all Azure subscriptions and management groups.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Go toReservations.
The list shows all the reservations where you have the Owner or Reader role. You can also view all reservations in your Microsoft Entra tenant (directory) if you have Reservation administrator or reader role. Each reservation shows the last known utilization percentage.
Select the utilization percentage to see the utilization history and details. The following video shows an example.
View utilization as billing administrator
An Enterprise Agreement (EA) administrator or a Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) billing administrator can view the utilization fromCost Management + Billing.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Go toCost Management + Billing>Reservations.
Select the utilization percentage to see the utilization history and details.
Get reservations and utilization using APIs, PowerShell, and CLI
You can get the reservation utilization using the Reserved Instance usage API.
See reservations and utilization in Power BI
There are two options for Power BI users:
Cost Management connector for Power BI Desktop - Reservation purchase date and utilization data are available in theCost Management connector for Power BI Desktop. Create the reports you want by using the connector.
Cost Management Power BI App - Use theCost Management Power BI Appfor pre-created reports that you can further customize.
Set alerts on utilization
With reservation utilization alerts, you can promptly take remedial actions to ensure optimal utilization of your reservation purchases. To learn more, seeReservation utilization alerts.
Next steps
Manage Azure Reservations.
Understand reservation usage for your Pay-As-You-Go subscription.
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment.
Understand reservation usage for CSP subscriptions.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources