Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is an Azure Machine Learning workspace?
Article
2025-04-03
19 contributors
In this article
Workspaces are places to collaborate with colleagues to create machine learning artifacts and group related work. For example, experiments, jobs, datasets, models, components, and inference endpoints. This article describes workspaces, how to manage access to them, and how to use them to organize your work.
Ready to get started?Create a workspace.
Tasks performed within a workspace
For machine learning teams, the workspace is a place to organize their work. Here are some of the tasks you can start from a workspace:
Create jobs- Jobs are training runs you use to build your models. You can group jobs intoexperimentsto compare metrics.
Author pipelines- Pipelines are reusable workflows for training and retraining your model.
Register data assets- Data assets aid in management of the data you use for model training and pipeline creation.
Register models- Once you have a model you want to deploy, you create a registered model.
Create online endpoints- Use a registered model and a scoring script to create an online endpoint.
Deploy a model- Use the registered model and a scoring script to deploy a model.
Besides grouping your machine learning results, workspaces also host resource configurations:
Compute targetsare used to run your experiments.
Datastoresdefine how you and others can connect to data sources when using data assets.
Security settings- Networking, identity and access control, and encryption settings.
Organizing workspaces
For machine learning team leads and administrators, workspaces serve as containers for access management, cost management, and data isolation. Here are some tips for organizing workspaces:
Useuser rolesfor permission management in the workspace between users. For example a data scientist, a machine learning engineer or an admin.
Assign access to user groups: By using Microsoft Entra user groups, you don't have to add individual users to each workspace, and to other resources the same group of users requires access to.
Create a workspace per project: While a workspace can be used for multiple projects, limiting it to one project per workspace allows for cost reporting accrued to a project level. It also allows you to manage configurations like datastores in the scope of each project.
Share Azure resources: Workspaces require you to create severalassociated resources. Share these resources between workspaces to save repetitive setup steps.
Enable self-serve: Precreate and secureassociated resourcesas an IT admin, and useuser rolesto let data scientists create workspaces on their own.
Share assets: You can share assets between workspaces usingAzure Machine Learning registries.
How is my content stored in a workspace?
Your workspace keeps a history of all training runs, with logs, metrics, output, lineage metadata, and a snapshot of your scripts. As you perform tasks in Azure Machine Learning, artifacts are generated. Their metadata and data are stored in the workspace and on its associated resources.
Associated resources
When you create a new workspace, you're required to bring other Azure resources to store your data. If not provided by you, Azure Machine Learning automatically creates these resources.
Azure Storage account. Stores machine learning artifacts such as job logs. By default, this storage account is used when you upload data to the workspace. Jupyter notebooks that are used with your Azure Machine Learning compute instances are stored here as well.ImportantYoucan'tuse an existing Azure Storage account if it is:An account of type BlobStorageA premium account (Premium_LRS and Premium_GRS)An account with hierarchical namespace (used with Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2).You can use premium storage or hierarchical namespace as extra storage bycreating a datastore.Don't enable hierarchical namespace on the storage account after upgrading to general-purpose v2.If you bring an existing general-purpose v1 storage account, you canupgrade to general-purpose v2after the workspace is created.
Azure Storage account. Stores machine learning artifacts such as job logs. By default, this storage account is used when you upload data to the workspace. Jupyter notebooks that are used with your Azure Machine Learning compute instances are stored here as well.
Important
Youcan'tuse an existing Azure Storage account if it is:
An account of type BlobStorage
A premium account (Premium_LRS and Premium_GRS)
An account with hierarchical namespace (used with Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2).
You can use premium storage or hierarchical namespace as extra storage bycreating a datastore.
Don't enable hierarchical namespace on the storage account after upgrading to general-purpose v2.
If you bring an existing general-purpose v1 storage account, you canupgrade to general-purpose v2after the workspace is created.
Azure Container Registry (ACR). Stores created docker containers, when you build custom environments via Azure Machine Learning. Deploying AutoML models and data profile triggers creation of custom environments.Workspacescanbe created without ACR as a dependency if you don't have a need to build custom docker containers. Azure Machine Learning can read from external container registries.ACR is automatically provisioned when you build custom docker images. UseAzure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)to prevent customer docker containers from being built.ImportantIf your subscription setting requires adding tags to resources under it, ACR created by Azure Machine Learning fails, since we can't set tags to ACR.
Azure Container Registry (ACR). Stores created docker containers, when you build custom environments via Azure Machine Learning. Deploying AutoML models and data profile triggers creation of custom environments.
Workspacescanbe created without ACR as a dependency if you don't have a need to build custom docker containers. Azure Machine Learning can read from external container registries.
ACR is automatically provisioned when you build custom docker images. UseAzure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)to prevent customer docker containers from being built.
Important
If your subscription setting requires adding tags to resources under it, ACR created by Azure Machine Learning fails, since we can't set tags to ACR.
Azure Application Insights. Helps you monitor and collect diagnostic information from your inference endpoints.For more information, seeMonitor online endpoints.
Azure Application Insights. Helps you monitor and collect diagnostic information from your inference endpoints.
For more information, seeMonitor online endpoints.
Azure Key Vault. Stores secrets that are used by compute targets and other sensitive information that the workspace needs.
Azure Key Vault. Stores secrets that are used by compute targets and other sensitive information that the workspace needs.
Create a workspace
There are multiple ways to create a workspace. To get started, use one of the following options:
TheAzure Machine Learning studiolets you quickly create a workspace with default settings.
UseAzure portalfor a point-and-click interface with more security options.
Use theVS Code extensionif you work in Visual Studio Code.
To automate workspace creation using your preferred security settings:
Azure Resource Manager / Bicep templatesprovide a declarative syntax to deploy Azure resources. An alternative option is to useTerraform. Also see theBicep templateorTerraform template.
Use theAzure Machine Learning CLIorAzure Machine Learning SDK for Pythonfor prototyping and as part of yourMLOps workflows.
UseREST APIsdirectly in scripting environment, for platform integration or in MLOps workflows.
Azure Resource Manager / Bicep templatesprovide a declarative syntax to deploy Azure resources. An alternative option is to useTerraform. Also see theBicep templateorTerraform template.
Azure Resource Manager / Bicep templatesprovide a declarative syntax to deploy Azure resources. An alternative option is to useTerraform. Also see theBicep templateorTerraform template.
Use theAzure Machine Learning CLI v1orAzure Machine Learning SDK v1 for Pythonfor prototyping and as part of yourMLOps workflows.ImportantThis article provides information on using the Azure Machine Learning SDK v1. The SDK v1 is deprecated as of March 31, 2025 and support for it will end on June 30, 2026. You're able to install and use the SDK v1 until that date.We recommend that you transition to the SDK v2 before June 30, 2026. For more information on the SDK v2, seeWhat is the Azure Machine Learning Python SDK v2and theSDK v2 reference.ImportantSome of the Azure CLI commands in this article use theazure-cli-ml, or v1, extension for Azure Machine Learning. Support for the v1 extension will end on September 30, 2025. You're able to install and use the v1 extension until that date.We recommend that you transition to theml, or v2, extension before September 30, 2025. For more information on the v2 extension, seeAzure Machine Learning CLI extension and Python SDK v2.
Use theAzure Machine Learning CLI v1orAzure Machine Learning SDK v1 for Pythonfor prototyping and as part of yourMLOps workflows.
Important
This article provides information on using the Azure Machine Learning SDK v1. The SDK v1 is deprecated as of March 31, 2025 and support for it will end on June 30, 2026. You're able to install and use the SDK v1 until that date.
We recommend that you transition to the SDK v2 before June 30, 2026. For more information on the SDK v2, seeWhat is the Azure Machine Learning Python SDK v2and theSDK v2 reference.
Important
Some of the Azure CLI commands in this article use theazure-cli-ml, or v1, extension for Azure Machine Learning. Support for the v1 extension will end on September 30, 2025. You're able to install and use the v1 extension until that date.
azure-cli-ml
We recommend that you transition to theml, or v2, extension before September 30, 2025. For more information on the v2 extension, seeAzure Machine Learning CLI extension and Python SDK v2.
ml
UseREST APIsdirectly in scripting environment, for platform integration or in MLOps workflows.
UseREST APIsdirectly in scripting environment, for platform integration or in MLOps workflows.
Tools for workspace interaction and management
Once your workspace is set up, you can interact with it in the following ways:
On the web:Azure portalAzure Machine Learning studioAzure Machine Learning designer
Azure portal
Azure Machine Learning studio
Azure Machine Learning designer
In any Python environment with theAzure Machine Learning SDK.
On the command line, using the Azure Machine LearningCLI extension v2
Azure Machine Learning VS Code Extension
On the web:Azure Machine Learning studioAzure Machine Learning designer
Azure Machine Learning studio
Azure Machine Learning designer
In any Python environment with theAzure Machine Learning SDK v1ImportantThis article provides information on using the Azure Machine Learning SDK v1. The SDK v1 is deprecated as of March 31, 2025 and support for it will end on June 30, 2026. You're able to install and use the SDK v1 until that date.We recommend that you transition to the SDK v2 before June 30, 2026. For more information on the SDK v2, seeWhat is the Azure Machine Learning Python SDK v2and theSDK v2 reference.
Important
This article provides information on using the Azure Machine Learning SDK v1. The SDK v1 is deprecated as of March 31, 2025 and support for it will end on June 30, 2026. You're able to install and use the SDK v1 until that date.
We recommend that you transition to the SDK v2 before June 30, 2026. For more information on the SDK v2, seeWhat is the Azure Machine Learning Python SDK v2and theSDK v2 reference.
On the command line, using the Azure Machine LearningCLI extension v1ImportantSome of the Azure CLI commands in this article use theazure-cli-ml, or v1, extension for Azure Machine Learning. Support for the v1 extension will end on September 30, 2025. You're able to install and use the v1 extension until that date.We recommend that you transition to theml, or v2, extension before September 30, 2025. For more information on the v2 extension, seeAzure Machine Learning CLI extension and Python SDK v2.
Important
Some of the Azure CLI commands in this article use theazure-cli-ml, or v1, extension for Azure Machine Learning. Support for the v1 extension will end on September 30, 2025. You're able to install and use the v1 extension until that date.
azure-cli-ml
We recommend that you transition to theml, or v2, extension before September 30, 2025. For more information on the v2 extension, seeAzure Machine Learning CLI extension and Python SDK v2.
ml
Azure Machine Learning VS Code Extension
The following workspace management tasks are available in each interface.
Warning
Moving your Azure Machine Learning workspace to a different subscription, or moving the owning subscription to a new tenant, isn't supported. Doing so might cause errors.
Sub resources
When you create compute clusters and compute instances in Azure Machine Learning, sub resources are created.
VMs: provide computing power for compute instances and compute clusters, which you use to run jobs.
Load Balancer: a network load balancer is created for each compute instance and compute cluster to manage traffic even while the compute instance/cluster is stopped.
Virtual Network: these help Azure resources communicate with one another, the internet, and other on-premises networks.
Bandwidth: encapsulates all outbound data transfers across regions.
Next steps
To learn more about planning a workspace for your organization's requirements, seeOrganize and set up Azure Machine Learning.
To get started with Azure Machine Learning, see:
What is Azure Machine Learning?
Create and manage a workspace
Recover a workspace after deletion (soft-delete)
Get started with Azure Machine Learning
Tutorial: Create your first classification model with automated machine learning
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources