Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is language detection in Azure AI Language?
Article
2025-02-21
5 contributors
In this article
Language detection is one of the features offered byAzure AI Language, a collection of machine learning and AI algorithms in the cloud for developing intelligent applications that involve written language. Language detection is able to detect more than 100 languages in their primary script. In addition, it offersscript detectionto detect supported scripts for each detected language according to theISO 15924 standardfor aselect number of languagessupported by Azure AI Language Service.
This documentation contains the following types of articles:
Quickstartsare getting-started instructions to guide you through making requests to the service.
How-to guidescontain instructions for using the service in more specific or customized ways.
Language detection features
Language detection: Returns one predominant language for each document you submit, along with its ISO 639-1 name, a human-readable name, confidence score, script name and script code according to ISO 15924 standard.
Language detection: Returns one predominant language for each document you submit, along with its ISO 639-1 name, a human-readable name, confidence score, script name and script code according to ISO 15924 standard.
Script detection: To distinguish between multiple scripts used to write certain languages, such as Kazakh, language detection returns a script name and script code according to the ISO 15924 standard.
Script detection: To distinguish between multiple scripts used to write certain languages, such as Kazakh, language detection returns a script name and script code according to the ISO 15924 standard.
Ambiguous content handling: To help disambiguate language based on the input, you can specify an ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country/region code. For example, the word "communication" is common to both English and French. Specifying the origin of the text as France can help the language detection model determine the correct language.
Ambiguous content handling: To help disambiguate language based on the input, you can specify an ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country/region code. For example, the word "communication" is common to both English and French. Specifying the origin of the text as France can help the language detection model determine the correct language.
Typical workflow
To use this feature, you submit data for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no added customization to the model used on your data.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Stream or store the response locally.
Stream or store the response locally.
Get started with language detection
To use language detection, you submit raw unstructured text for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no additional customization to the model used on your data. There are three ways to use language detection:
Responsible AI
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who will use it, the people who will be affected by it, and the environment in which it's deployed. Read thetransparency note for language detectionto learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems. You can also see the following articles for more information:
Transparency note for Azure AI Language
Integration and responsible use
Data, privacy, and security
Next steps
There are two ways to get started using the entity linking feature:
Azure AI Foundryis a web-based platform that lets you use several Language service features without needing to write code.
Thequickstart articlefor instructions on making requests to the service using the REST API and client library SDK.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources