Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor Logs overview
Article
2025-04-01
19 contributors
In this article
Azure Monitor Logs is a centralized software as a service (SaaS) platform for collecting, analyzing, and acting on telemetry data generated by Azure and non-Azure resources and applications.
You can collect logs, manage log data and costs, and consume different types of data in oneLog Analytics workspace, the primary Azure Monitor Logs resource. This means you never have to move data or manage other storage, and you can retain different data types for as long or as little as you need.
This article provides an overview of how Azure Monitor Logs works and explains how it addresses the needs and skills of different personas in an organization.
Note
Azure Monitor Logs is one half of the data platform that supports Azure Monitor. The other isAzure Monitor Metrics, which stores numeric data in a time-series database.
How Azure Monitor Logs works
Azure Monitor Logs provides you with the tools to:
Collect any databy using Azure Monitor data collection methods. Transform data based on your needs to optimize costs, remove personal data, and so on, and route data to tables in your Log Analytics workspace.
Manage and optimize log data and costsby configuring your Log Analytics workspace and log tables, including table schemas, table plans, data retention, data aggregation, who has access to which data, and log-related costs.
Retrieve data in near-real timeby using Kusto Query language (KQL), or KQL-based tools and features that don't require KQL knowledge, such as Simple mode in the Log Analytics user interface, prebuilt curated monitoring experiences called Insights, and predefined queries.
Use data flexiblyfor a range of use cases, including data analysis, troubleshooting, alerting, dashboards and reports, custom applications, and other Azure or non-Azure services.

Data collection, routing, and transformation
Azure Monitor's data collection capabilities let you collect data from all of your applications and resources running in Azure, other clouds, and on-premises. A powerful ingestion pipeline enables filtering, transforming, and routing data to destination tables in your Log Analytics workspace to optimize costs, analytics capabilities, and query performance.

For more information on data collection and transformation, seeAzure Monitor data sources and data collection methodsandData collection transformations in Azure Monitor.
Log Analytics workspace
ALog Analytics workspaceis a data store that holds tables into which you collect data.
To address the data storage and consumption needs of various personas who use a Log Analytics workspace, you can:
Define table plansbased on your data consumption and cost management needs.
Manage low-cost long-term retention and interactive retentionfor each table.
Manage accessto the workspace and to specific tables.
Use summary rules to aggregate datato summarized tables. This lets you optimize data collected over time for actionable insights and use in ongoing analysis, dashboards, and business reports.
Create ready-to-runsaved queries,visualizations, andalertstailored to specific personas.

You can also configure network isolation, replicate your workspace across regions, anddesign a workspace architecture based on your business needs.
Table plans
You can use one Log Analytics workspace to store any type of log required for any purpose. For example:
High-volume, verbose data that requirescheap long-term storage for audit and compliance
App and resource data fortroubleshootingby developers
Key event and performance data for scaling and alerting to ensure ongoingoperational excellence and security
Aggregated long-term data trends foradvanced analytics and machine learning
Table plans let you manage data costs based on how often you use the data in a table and the type of analysis you need the data for.
This video provides an overview of how table plans enable multi-tier logging in Azure Monitor Logs:
The diagram and table below compare the Analytics, Basic, and Auxiliary table plans. For information about interactive and long-term retention, seeManage data retention in a Log Analytics workspace. For information about how to select or modify a table plan, seeSelect a table plan.

1Basic and Auxiliary table plans currently support Workbooks and Grafana.
Note
The Basic and Auxiliary table plans aren't available for workspaces inlegacy pricing tiers.
Note
These features are currently not supported in the Auxiliary table plan:
Log Analytics workspace replication; Azure Monitor doesn't replicate data in tables with the Auxiliary plan to your secondary workspace. Therefore, this data isn't protected against data loss in the event of a regional failure and isn't available when you switch over to your secondary workspace.
Customer Lockbox for Microsoft Azure; The Lockbox interface, which lets you review and approve or reject customer data access requests in response to a customer-initiated support ticket or a problem identified by Microsoft does not apply to tables with the Auxiliary plan.
Kusto Query Language (KQL) and Log Analytics
You retrieve data from a Log Analytics workspace using aKusto Query Language (KQL)query, which is a read-only request to process data and return results. KQL is a powerful tool that can analyze millions of records quickly. Use KQL to explore your logs, transform and aggregate data, discover patterns, identify anomalies and outliers, and more.
Log Analytics is a tool in the Azure portal for running log queries and analyzing their results.Log Analytics Simple modelets any user, regardless of their knowledge of KQL, retrieve data from one or more tables with one click. A set of controls lets you explore and analyze the retrieved data using the most popular Azure Monitor Logs functionality in an intuitive, spreadsheet-like experience.

If you're familiar with KQL, you can use Log Analytics KQL mode to edit and create queries, which you can then use in Azure Monitor features such as alerts and workbooks, or share with other users.
For more information about Log Analytics, seeOverview of Log Analytics in Azure Monitor.
Built-in insights and custom dashboards, workbooks, and reports
Many of Azure Monitor'sready-to-use, curated Insights experiencesstore data in Azure Monitor Logs, and present this data in an intuitive way so you can monitor the performance and availability of your cloud and hybrid applications and their supporting components.

You can alsocreate your own visualizations and reportsusing workbooks, dashboards, and Power BI.
Tip
Instead of running complex queries on large data sets or long time ranges, usesummary rulesto aggregate data for custom dashboards, workbooks, and reports. Summary rules aggregate data from one or more tables as the data arrives at your Log Analytics workspace. Visualizing the aggregated data directly from a custom table of summarized data, instead of querying raw data from one or more tables, improves query performance and reduces query errors and timeouts.
Use cases
This table describes some of the ways that you can use the data you collect in Azure Monitor Logs to derive operational and business value.
The command line usingAzure CLIorAzure PowerShell cmdlets.
A custom app using theREST APIor client library for.NET,Go,Java,JavaScript, orPython.
Working with Microsoft Sentinel and Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Microsoft SentinelandMicrosoft Defender for CloudperformSecurity monitoringin Azure.
These services store their data in Azure Monitor Logs so that it can be analyzed with other log data collected by Azure Monitor.
Learn more
Where Microsoft Sentinel data is stored
Design a Log Analytics workspace architecture
Microsoft Sentinel sample workspace designs
Prepare for multiple workspaces and tenants in Microsoft Sentinel
Enable Microsoft Sentinel on your Log Analytics workspace.
Log management in Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Sentinel pricing
Charges for workspaces with Microsoft Sentinel
Continuously export Microsoft Defender for Cloud data
Data consumption
Frequently asked questions about Log Analytics workspaces used with Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Microsoft Defender for Cloud pricing
Charges for workspaces with Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Next steps
Learn aboutlog queriesto retrieve and analyze data from a Log Analytics workspace.
Learn aboutmetrics in Azure Monitor.
Learn about themonitoring data availablefor various resources in Azure.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources