Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of Azure SQL Managed Instance management operations
Article
2024-12-04
9 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL Managed Instance
Azure SQL Managed Instance provides management operations that you can use to automatically deploy new managed instances, update instance properties, and delete instances when no longer needed.
What are management operations?
All management operations can be categorized as follows:
Instance deployment (new instance creation)
Instance update (changing instance properties, such as vCores or reserved storage)
Instance deletion
To supportdeployments within Azure virtual networksand provide isolation and security for customers, SQL Managed Instance relies onvirtual clusters. The virtual cluster represents a dedicated set of isolated virtual machines deployed inside the customer's virtual network subnet and organized in virtual machine groups. Essentially, every managed instance deployed to an empty subnet results in a new virtual cluster buildout which builds the very first virtual machine group.
Subsequent management operations on managed instances can affect the underlyingvirtual machine groups. Changes that affect the underlying virtual machine groups might affect the duration of management operations, as deploying more virtual machines to the virtual cluster comes with an overhead that you need to consider when you plan new deployments or updates to existing managed instances.
Fast provisioning
Instances with certain configurations can benefit from fast SQL Managed Instance provisioning, which reduces the time it takes to create your first instance in a subnet to 30 minutes (down from an average of 45-60 minutes). To learn more about operation duration times, reviewmanagement operations.
Fast provisioning only applies:
to the first instance provisioned in the subnet.
to instances with 4-8 vCores.
to instances that use the default maintenance window.
to instances that aren't zone redundant.
Duration
The duration of operations on the virtual cluster can vary, but typically have the longest duration.
The following table lists the long running steps that can be triggered as part of the create, update, or delete operation. Table also lists the durations that you can typically expect, based on existing service telemetry data:
1Fast provisioning is currently supported only for the first instance in the subnet, with 4 or 8 vCores, and with default maintenance window configuration.2When scaling compute (vCores) or storage in Business Critical service tier, or switching service tier from General Purpose to Business Critical, seeding also includes Always On availability group seeding.
Important
Scaling storage up or down in the General Purpose service tier consists of updating metadata and propagating response for submitted request. It's a fast operation that completes in up to 5 minutes, without a downtime and failover.
Management operations long running segments
The following tables summarize operations and typical overall durations, based on the category of the operation:
Category: Deployment
1Fast provisioning is currently supported only for the first instance in the subnet, with 4 or 8 vCores, and with default maintenance window configuration.2A separatevirtual machine groupis created for each hardware generation and maintenance window configuration.
Category: Update
1Managed instance must be placed in a virtual machine group with the same corresponding hardware and maintenance window. If there is no such group in the virtual cluster, a new one must be created first to accommodate the instance configuration.
Category: Delete
1If there are multiple virtual machine groups in the cluster, deleting the last instance in the group immediately triggers deleting the virtual machine groupasynchronously.2Deleting the last instance in the subnet immediately triggers deleting the virtual clustersynchronously.
Important
As soon as delete operation is triggered, billing for SQL Managed Instance is disabled. Duration of the delete operation doesn't affect the billing.
Instance availability
SQL Managed Instanceis available during update operations, except a short downtime caused by the failover that happens at the end of the update. It typically lasts up to 10 seconds even in case of interrupted long-running transactions, thanks toaccelerated database recovery.
Note
Scaling General Purpose managed instance storage don't cause a failover at the end of update.
SQL Managed Instance isn't available to client applications during deployment and deletion operations.
Important
It's not recommended to scale compute or storage of Azure SQL Managed Instance or to change the service tier at the same time as long-running transactions (data import, data processing jobs, index rebuild, etc.). The failover of the database at the end of the operation cancels all ongoing transactions.
Management operations steps
Management operations consist of multiple steps. Withmonitoring APIs, these steps are exposed for subset of operations (deployment and update). Deployment operation consists of three steps while update operation is performed in six steps. For details on operations duration, see themanagement operations durationsection. Steps are listed in order of execution.
Managed instance deployment steps
Managed instance update steps
Managed instance delete steps
Note
As a result of scaling instances, the underlying virtual cluster goes through the process of releasing unused capacity and possible capacity defragmentation, which could impact instances that did not participate in creation / scaling operations.
Management operations cross-impact
Management operations on a managed instance can affect the management operations of other instances placed inside the same subnet:
Long-running restore operationsin a virtual cluster put other operations in the same virtual machine group on hold, such as creation or scaling operations.Example:If there's a long-running restore operation, and also a scale request that requires shrinking the virtual machine group, the shrink request takes longer to complete as it waits for the restore operation to finish before it can continue.
Long-running restore operationsin a virtual cluster put other operations in the same virtual machine group on hold, such as creation or scaling operations.
Example:If there's a long-running restore operation, and also a scale request that requires shrinking the virtual machine group, the shrink request takes longer to complete as it waits for the restore operation to finish before it can continue.
A subsequent instance creation or scalingoperation is put on hold by a previously initiated instance creation or instance scale that initiated a resize of the virtual machine group.Example:If there are multiple create and/or scale requests in the same subnet under the same virtual machine group, and one of them initiates a virtual machine group resize, all requests that were submitted 5+ minutes after the initial operation request last longer than expected, as these requests must wait for the resize to complete before resuming.
A subsequent instance creation or scalingoperation is put on hold by a previously initiated instance creation or instance scale that initiated a resize of the virtual machine group.
Example:If there are multiple create and/or scale requests in the same subnet under the same virtual machine group, and one of them initiates a virtual machine group resize, all requests that were submitted 5+ minutes after the initial operation request last longer than expected, as these requests must wait for the resize to complete before resuming.
Create/scale operations submitted in a 5-minute windoware batched and executed in parallel.Example:Only one virtual cluster resize is performed for all operations submitted in a 5-minute window (measuring from the moment of executing the first operation request). If another request is submitted more than 5 minutes after the first one is submitted, it waits for the virtual cluster resize to complete before execution starts.
Create/scale operations submitted in a 5-minute windoware batched and executed in parallel.
Example:Only one virtual cluster resize is performed for all operations submitted in a 5-minute window (measuring from the moment of executing the first operation request). If another request is submitted more than 5 minutes after the first one is submitted, it waits for the virtual cluster resize to complete before execution starts.
Important
Management operations that are put on hold because of another operation that is in progress, are automatically resumed once conditions to proceed are met. No user action is necessary to resume the temporarily paused management operations.
Monitor management operations
To learn how to monitor management operation progress and status, seeMonitoring Azure SQL Managed Instance management operations.
Cancel management operations
To learn how to cancel management operation, seeCanceling Azure SQL Managed Instance management operations.
Related content
Quickstart: Create Azure SQL Managed Instance
Features comparison: Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance
Connectivity architecture for Azure SQL Managed Instance
Virtual cluster architecture - Azure SQL Managed Instance
SQL Managed Instance migration using Database Migration Service
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources