Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Get started with sensitivity labels
Article
2025-03-03
7 contributors
In this article
Microsoft 365 licensing guidance for security & compliance.
For information about what sensitivity labels are and how they can help you protect your organization's data, seeLearn about sensitivity labels.
When you're ready to start protecting your organization's data by using sensitivity labels:

Create the labels.Create and name your sensitivity labels according to your organization's classification taxonomy for different sensitivity levels of content. Use common names or terms that make sense to your users. If you don't already have an established taxonomy, consider starting with label names such as Personal, Public, General, Confidential, and Highly Confidential. You can then use sublabels to group similar labels by category.For each label, specify a tooltip to help users select the appropriate label and consider including specific examples. However, don't make the tooltip so long that users won't read it, and be aware that some apps might truncate long tooltips.NoteFor some recommended examples, see the label names and descriptions for thedefault sensitivity labels. For more guidance about defining a classification taxonomy, seeData classification & sensitivity label taxonomy.Always test and tailor your sensitivity label names and tooltips with the people who need to apply them.
Create the labels.Create and name your sensitivity labels according to your organization's classification taxonomy for different sensitivity levels of content. Use common names or terms that make sense to your users. If you don't already have an established taxonomy, consider starting with label names such as Personal, Public, General, Confidential, and Highly Confidential. You can then use sublabels to group similar labels by category.
For each label, specify a tooltip to help users select the appropriate label and consider including specific examples. However, don't make the tooltip so long that users won't read it, and be aware that some apps might truncate long tooltips.
Note
For some recommended examples, see the label names and descriptions for thedefault sensitivity labels. For more guidance about defining a classification taxonomy, seeData classification & sensitivity label taxonomy.
Always test and tailor your sensitivity label names and tooltips with the people who need to apply them.
Define what each label can do.Configure the protection settings you want associated with each label. For example, you might want lower sensitivity content (such as a "General" label) to have just a header or footer applied, while higher sensitivity content (such as a "Confidential" label) should have a watermark and encryption.
Define what each label can do.Configure the protection settings you want associated with each label. For example, you might want lower sensitivity content (such as a "General" label) to have just a header or footer applied, while higher sensitivity content (such as a "Confidential" label) should have a watermark and encryption.
Publish the labels.After your sensitivity labels are configured, publish them by using a label policy. Decide which users and groups should have the labels and what policy settings to use. A single label is reusable—you define it once, and then you can include it in several label policies assigned to different users. So for example, you could pilot your sensitivity labels by assigning a label policy to just a few users. Then when you're ready to roll out the labels across your organization, you can create a new label policy for your labels and this time, specify all users.
Publish the labels.After your sensitivity labels are configured, publish them by using a label policy. Decide which users and groups should have the labels and what policy settings to use. A single label is reusable—you define it once, and then you can include it in several label policies assigned to different users. So for example, you could pilot your sensitivity labels by assigning a label policy to just a few users. Then when you're ready to roll out the labels across your organization, you can create a new label policy for your labels and this time, specify all users.
Tip
You might be eligible for the automatic creation of default labels and a default label policy that takes care of steps 1-3 for you. For more information, seeDefault labels and policies for Microsoft Purview Information Protection.
The basic flow for deploying and applying sensitivity labels is summarized in the following diagram. It identifies the roles and actions of admins, end users, and then Office or third-party apps or services that respectively create labels, apply them, and enforce the label settings.

Tip
If you're not an E5 customer, use the 90-day Microsoft Purview solutions trial to explore how additional Purview capabilities can help your organization manage data security and compliance needs. Start now at theMicrosoft Purview trials hub. Learn details aboutsigning up and trial terms.
Subscription and licensing requirements for sensitivity labels
A number of different subscriptions support sensitivity labels and the licensing requirements for users depend on the features you use. Admins also need a license to manage sensitivity labels.
To see the options for licensing your users to benefit from Microsoft Purview features, see theMicrosoft 365 licensing guidance for security & compliance. For sensitivity labels, see theMicrosoft Purview Information Protection: Sensitivity labelingsection and relatedPDF downloadfor feature-level licensing requirements.
Permissions required to create and manage sensitivity labels
Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. Minimizing the number of users with the Global Administrator role helps improve security for your organization. Learn more about Microsoft Purviewroles and permissions.
Members of your compliance team who will create and sensitivity labels need permissions to theMicrosoft Purview portal. You can use the following role groups:
Information Protection
Information Protection Admins
Information Protection Analysts
Information Protection Investigators
Information Protection Readers
For an explanation of each one, and the roles that they contain, select a role group in the Microsoft Purview portal, and then review the description in the flyout pane. Or, seeRole groups in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 and Microsoft Purview compliance.
Alternatively to using the default role groups, you can create a new role group and add theSensitivity Label Administratorrole to this group. For a read-only role, useSensitivity Label Reader.
Another option is to add users to theCompliance Data Administrator,Compliance Administrator, orSecurity Administratorrole group.
For configuration instructions, seePermissions in the Microsoft Purview portal.
These permissions are required only to create and configure sensitivity labels and their label policies. They are not required to apply the labels in apps or services. If additional permissions are needed for specific configurations that relate to sensitivity labels, those permissions will be listed in their respective documentation instructions.
Support for administrative units
Sensitivity labels supportadministrative units that have been configured in Microsoft Entra ID:
You can assign administrative units to members of role groups that are used with Microsoft Purview Information Protection. Edit these role groups and select individual members, and then theAssign admin unitsoption to select administrative units from Microsoft Entra ID. These administrators are now restricted to managing just the users in those administrative units.
You can assign administrative units to members of role groups that are used with Microsoft Purview Information Protection. Edit these role groups and select individual members, and then theAssign admin unitsoption to select administrative units from Microsoft Entra ID. These administrators are now restricted to managing just the users in those administrative units.
You can define the initial scope of sensitivity label policies and auto-labeling policies when you create or edit these policies. When you select administrative units, only the users in those administrative units will be eligible for the policy.
You can define the initial scope of sensitivity label policies and auto-labeling policies when you create or edit these policies. When you select administrative units, only the users in those administrative units will be eligible for the policy.
Protection policiesdon't support administrative units.
Protection policiesdon't support administrative units.
Important
Don't select administrative units for an auto-labeling policy that you want to apply to documents in SharePoint. Because administrative units support only users and groups, if you configure an auto-labeling policy to use administrative units, you won't be able to select the SharePoint location.
The configuration of administrative units and the accuracy of their membership is a Microsoft Entra ID dependency. Although the main purpose of administrative units is to ensure the security best practice of least privileges, using administrative units for your labeling policies can simplify their configuration and maintenance.
For example, your organization has configured administrative units for specific countries, and you need to publish a new sensitivity label just to users in France and assign specific policy settings to these users:
You sign in to the Microsoft Purview portal. Your account is a member of theInformation Protection Adminsrole group, and your account in that role group has been assigned administrative units for France, Germany, and Spain.
You sign in to the Microsoft Purview portal. Your account is a member of theInformation Protection Adminsrole group, and your account in that role group has been assigned administrative units for France, Germany, and Spain.
When you create the sensitivity label policy, you see just three administrative units and select the one for France, keeping the default of all users and groups.This configuration automatically scopes the policy to all users in France. You don't need to worry about which groups to select or manually select users. You also don't need to worry about changing the policy when there are new users in France, because this change is handled by the administrative unit in Microsoft Entra.
When you create the sensitivity label policy, you see just three administrative units and select the one for France, keeping the default of all users and groups.
This configuration automatically scopes the policy to all users in France. You don't need to worry about which groups to select or manually select users. You also don't need to worry about changing the policy when there are new users in France, because this change is handled by the administrative unit in Microsoft Entra.
For more information about how Microsoft Purview supports administrative units, seeAdministrative units.
Deployment strategy for sensitivity labels
A successful strategy to deploy sensitivity labels for an organization is to create a working virtual team that identifies and manages the business and technical requirements, proof of concept testing, internal checkpoints and approvals, and final deployment for the production environment.
Using the table in the next section, we recommend identifying your top one or two scenarios that map to your most impactful business requirements. After these scenarios are deployed, return to the list to identify the next one or two priorities for deployment.
Tip
To help accelerate your deployment, use theOverviewpage fromInformation Protectionin theMicrosoft Purview portalto see labeling recommendations and reports specific to your organization, and more.
Common scenarios for sensitivity labels
All scenarios require you toCreate and configure sensitivity labels and their policies.
End-user documentation for sensitivity labels
The most effective end-user documentation will be customized guidance and instructions you provide for the label names and configurations you choose. You can use the label policy settingProvide users with a link to a custom help pageto specify an internal link for this documentation.
In Office apps, users can then easily access your customized help from theSensitivitybutton,Learn Moremenu option. If you don't specify a link in the policy setting, users don't see this menu option in their apps.
From the Microsoft Purview Information Protection file labler in Windows File Explorer, users can access the same customized help fromHelp and Feedback>Tell Me Morein the file labeler dialog box.
To help you provide your customized documentation, see the following page and downloads that you can use to help train your users:End User Training for Sensitivity Labels.
You can also use the following resources for basic instructions:
Apply sensitivity labels to your files and email in OfficeKnown issues with sensitivity labels in Office
Apply sensitivity labels to your files and email in Office
Known issues with sensitivity labels in Office
Automatically apply or recommend sensitivity labels to your files and emails in OfficeKnown issues with automatically applying or recommending sensitivity labels
Automatically apply or recommend sensitivity labels to your files and emails in Office
Known issues with automatically applying or recommending sensitivity labels
Create protected PDFs from Office files
Create protected PDFs from Office files
Sensitivity labels for Teams meetings
Sensitivity labels for Teams meetings
Apply sensitivity labels to your Outlook meetings.
Apply sensitivity labels to your Outlook meetings.
Label and protect files in File Explorer in Windows
Label and protect files in File Explorer in Windows
If your sensitivity labels apply encryption for PDF documents, these documents can be opened with Microsoft Edge on Windows or Mac. For more information, seeView protected PDFs using Microsoft Edge on Windows or Mac.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources