Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Routing architecture overview
Article
2024-08-12
6 contributors
In this article
Azure Front Door traffic routing takes place over multiple stages. First, traffic is routed from the client to the Front Door. Then, Front Door uses your configuration to determine the origin to send the traffic to. The Front Door web application firewall, routing rules, rules engine, and caching configuration can all affect the routing process.
The following diagram illustrates the routing architecture:

Important
Azure Front Door (classic) will be retired onMarch 31, 2027. To avoid any service disruption, it's important that youmigrate your Azure Front Door (classic) profilesto Azure Front Door Standard or Premium tier by March 2027. For more information, seeAzure Front Door (classic) retirement.

The rest of this article describes these steps in detail.
Select and connect to the Front Door edge location
The user or client application initiates a connection to the Front Door. The connection terminates at an edge location closest to the end user. Front Door's edge location processes the request.
For more information about how requests are made to Front Door, seeFront Door traffic acceleration.
Match request to a Front Door profile
When Front Door receives an HTTP request, it uses the request'sHostheader to match the request to the correct customer's Front Door profile. If the request is using acustom domain name, the domain name must be registered with Front Door to enable requests to get matched to your profile.
Host
Match request to a front door
When Front Door receives an HTTP request, it uses the request'sHostheader to match the request to the correct customer's Front Door instance. If the request is using acustom domain name, the domain name must be registered with Front Door to enable requests to get matched to your Front door.
Host
The client and server perform a TLS handshake using the TLS certificate you configured for your custom domain name, or by using the Front Door certificate when theHostheader ends with*.azurefd.net.
Host
*.azurefd.net
Evaluate WAF rules
If your domain has Web Application Firewall enabled, WAF rules are evaluated.
If your frontend has Web Application Firewall enabled, WAF rules are evaluated.
If a rule gets violated, Front Door returns an error to the client and the request processing stops.
Match a route
Front Door matches the request to a route. Learn more about theroute matching process.
The route specifies theorigin groupthat the request should be sent to.
Match a routing rule
Front Door matches the request to a routing rule. Learn more about theroute matching process.
The route specifies thebackend poolthat the request should be sent to.
Evaluate rule sets
If you definerule setsfor the route, they get process in the order configured.Rule sets can override the origin groupspecified in a route. Rule sets can also trigger a redirection response to the request instead of forwarding it to an origin.
Evaluate rules engines
If you definerules enginesfor the route, they get process in the order configured.Rules engines can override the backend poolspecified in a routing rule. Rules engines can also trigger a redirection response to the request instead of forwarding it to a backend.
Return cached response
If the Front Door routing rule hascachingenabled, and the Front Door edge location's cache includes a valid response for the request, then Front Door returns the cached response.
If caching is disabled or no response is available, the request is forwarded to the origin.
If the Front Door routing rule hascachingenabled, and the Front Door edge location's cache includes a valid response for the request, then Front Door returns the cached response.
If caching is disabled or no response is available, the request is forwarded to the backend.
Select origin
Front Door selects an origin to use within the origin group. Origin selection is based on several factors, including:
Health of each origin, which Front Door monitors by usinghealth probes.
Routing methodfor your origin group.
If you enablesession affinity
Forward the request to the origin
Finally, the request is forwarded to the origin.
Select backend
Front Door selects a backend to use within the backend pool. Backend selection is based on several factors, including:
Health of each backend, which Front Door monitors by usinghealth probes.
Routing methodfor your backend pool.
If you have enablesession affinity
Forward the request to the backend
Finally, the request is forwarded to the backend.
Next steps
Learn how tocreate an Azure Front Door profile.
Learn how tocreate an Azure Front Door (classic) profile.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources