Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How to choose the right key management solution
Article
2025-03-30
6 contributors
In this article
Azure offers several solutions for cryptographic key storage and management in the cloud: Azure Key Vault (standard and premium offerings), Azure Managed HSM, Azure Cloud HSM, Azure Dedicated HSM, and Azure Payment HSM. It might be overwhelming for customers to decide which key management solution is right for them. This article helps customers navigate this decision-making process by presenting the range of solutions based on three considerations: scenarios, requirements, and industry.
To narrow down a key management solution, follow the flowchart based on common high-level requirements and key management scenarios. Alternatively, use the table based on specific customer requirements that follows it. If either provides multiple products as solutions, or if you want reassurance about choosing the right product, use a combination of the flowchart and table to make a final decision. If you're curious about what other customers in the same industry use, read the table of common key management solutions by industry segment. To learn more about a specific solution, follow the links at the end of the document.
Choose a key management solution by scenario
The following chart describes common requirements and use case scenarios and the recommended Azure key management solution.
The chart refers to these common requirements:
FIPS-140is a US government standard with different levels of security requirements. For more information, seeFederal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140.
Key sovereigntyis when the customer's organization has full and exclusive control of their keys, including control over what users and services can access the keys and key management policies.
Single tenancyrefers to a single dedicated instance of an application deployed for each customer, rather than a shared instance among multiple customers. The need for single tenant products is often found as an internal compliance requirement in financial service industries.
It also refers to these various key management use cases:
Encryption at restis typically enabled for Azure IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS models. Applications such as Microsoft 365; Microsoft Purview Information Protection; platform services in which the cloud is used for storage, analytics, and service bus functionality; and infrastructure services in which operating systems and applications are hosted and deployed in the cloud use encryption at rest.Customer managed keys for encryption at restis used with Azure Storage and Microsoft Entra. For highest security, keys should be HSM-backed, 3k or 4k RSA keys. For more information about encryption at rest, seeAzure Data Encryption at Rest.
SSL/TLS Offloadis supported on Azure Managed HSM, Azure Cloud HSM, and Azure Dedicated HSM. Customers have improved high availability, security, and the best price point on Azure Managed HSM for F5 and Nginx.
Lift and shiftrefer to scenarios where a PKCS11 application on-premises is migrated to Azure Virtual Machines and running software such as Oracle TDE in Azure Virtual Machines. Lift and shift requiring payment PIN processing is supported by Azure Payment HSM. All other scenarios are supported by Azure Cloud HSM and Azure Dedicated HSM. Legacy APIs and libraries such as PKCS11, JCA/JCE, and CNG/KSP are only supported by Azure Cloud HSM and Azure Dedicated HSM.
Payment PIN processingincludes allowing card and mobile payment authorization and 3D-Secure authentication; PIN generation, management, and validation; payment credential issuing for cards, wearables, and connected devices; securing keys and authentication data; and sensitive data protection for point-to-point encryption, security tokenization, and EMV payment tokenization. This also includes certifications such as PCI DSS, PCI 3DS, and PCI PIN. These are only supported by Azure Payment HSM.

The flowchart result is a starting point to identify the solution that best matches your needs.
Compare other customer requirements
Azure provides multiple key management solutions to allow customers to choose a product based on both high-level requirements and management responsibilities. There is a spectrum of management responsibilities ranging from Azure Key Vault and Azure Managed HSM having less customer responsibility, followed by Azure Dedicated HSM and Azure Payment HSM having the most customer responsibility.
This trade-off of management responsibility between the customer and Microsoft and other requirements is detailed in the table below.
Provisioning and hosting are managed by Microsoft across all solutions. Key generation and management, roles and permissions granting, and monitoring and auditing are the responsibility of the customer across all solutions.
Use the table to compare all the solutions side by side. Begin from top to bottom, answering each question found on the left-most column to help you choose the solution that meets all your needs, including management overhead and costs.
Common key management solution uses by industry segments
Here is a list of the key management solutions we commonly see being utilized based on industry.
Learn more about Azure key management solutions
Azure Key Vault (Standard Tier): A FIPS 140-2 Level 1 validated multitenant cloud key management service that can be used to store both asymmetric and symmetric keys, secrets, and certificates. Keys stored in Azure Key Vault are software-protected and can be used for encryption-at-rest and custom applications. Azure Key Vault Standard provides a modern API and a breadth of regional deployments and integrations with Azure Services. For more information, seeAbout Azure Key Vault.
Azure Key Vault (Premium Tier): A FIPS 140-2 Level 3 validated, PCI compliant, multitenant HSM offering that can be used to store both asymmetric and symmetric keys, secrets, and certificates. Keys are stored in a secure hardware boundary*. Microsoft manages and operates the underlying HSM, and keys stored in Azure Key Vault Premium can be used for encryption-at-rest and custom applications. Azure Key Vault Premium also provides a modern API and a breadth of regional deployments and integrations with Azure Services. If you are an AKV Premium customer looking for higher security compliance, key sovereignty, single tenancy, and/or higher crypto operations per second, you may want to consider Managed HSM instead. For more information, seeAbout Azure Key Vault.
Azure Managed HSM: A FIPS 140-2 Level 3 validated, PCI compliant, single-tenant HSM offering that gives customers full control of an HSM for encryption-at-rest, Keyless SSL/TLS offload, and custom applications. Azure Managed HSM is the only key management solution offering confidential keys. Customers receive a pool of three HSM partitions—together acting as one logical, highly available HSM appliance—fronted by a service that exposes crypto functionality through the Key Vault API. Microsoft handles the provisioning, patching, maintenance, and hardware failover of the HSMs, but doesn't have access to the keys themselves, because the service executes within Azure's Confidential Compute Infrastructure. Azure Managed HSM is integrated with the Azure SQL, Azure Storage, and Azure Information Protection PaaS services and offers support for Keyless TLS with F5 and Nginx. For more information, seeWhat is Azure Key Vault Managed HSM?.
Azure Dedicated HSM: A FIPS 140-2 Level 3 validated, PCI compliant, single-tenant bare metal HSM offering that lets customers lease a general-purpose HSM appliance that resides in Microsoft datacenters. The customer has complete ownership over the HSM device and is responsible for patching and updating the firmware when required. Microsoft has no permissions on the device or access to the key material, and Azure Dedicated HSM is not integrated with any Azure PaaS offerings. Customers can interact with the HSM using the PKCS#11, JCE/JCA, and KSP/CNG APIs. This offering is most useful for legacy lift-and-shift workloads, PKI, SSL Offloading, and Keyless TLS (supported integrations include F5, Nginx, Apache, Palo Alto, IBM GW and more), OpenSSL applications, Oracle TDE, and Azure SQL TDE IaaS. For more information, seeWhat is Azure Dedicated HSM?.
Azure Cloud HSM: A FIPS 140-3 Level 3 validated single-tenant HSM offering that gives customers full control of an HSM for PKCS#11, offload SSL/TLS processing, certificate authority private key protection, transparent data encryption, including document and code signing, and custom applications. Customer has full administrative control of their HSM cluster. While customers own deployment and initialization of their HSM, Microsoft handles the service provisioning and hosting of the HSM. Azure Cloud HSM supports all existing Azure Dedicated HSM use cases, including using lift-and-shift workloads, PKI, SSL Offloading and Keyless TLS, OpenSSL applications, Oracle TDE, and Azure SQL TDE IaaS. Azure Cloud HSM is not integrated with any Azure PaaS offerings.
Azure Payment HSM: A FIPS 140-2 Level 3, PCI HSM v3, validated single-tenant bare metal HSM offering that lets customers lease a payment HSM appliance in Microsoft datacenters for payments operations, including payment PIN processing, payment credential issuing, securing keys and authentication data, and sensitive data protection. The service is PCI DSS, PCI 3DS, and PCI PIN compliant. Azure Payment HSM offers single-tenant HSMs for customers to have complete administrative control and exclusive access to the HSM. Once the HSM is allocated to a customer, Microsoft has no access to customer data. Likewise, when the HSM is no longer required, customer data is zeroized and erased as soon as the HSM is released, to ensure complete privacy and security is maintained. For more information, seeWhat Is Azure Payment HSM?.
Note
* Azure Key Vault Premium allows the creation of both software-protected and HSM protected keys. If using Azure Key Vault Premium, check to ensure that the key created is HSM protected.
What's next
Key management in Azure
Azure Key Vault
Azure Managed HSM
Azure Dedicated HSM
Azure Payment HSM
What is Zero Trust?
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources