Azure Well-Architected Framework
The Azure Well-Architected Framework is a set of quality-driven tenets, architectural decision points, and review tools intended to help solution architects build a technical foundation for their workloads.
Azure Well-Architected Framework
Design workloads that achieve business value over time.
As solution architects, you want to build reliable, secure, and performant workloads that maximize the value of investment in Azure infrastructure. Start with the Pillars, and align your design choices with the principles. Then, build a strong foundation for your workload based on technical design areas. Finally, use review tools to assess your readiness in deploying to production.
Featured update - Artificial Intelligence Workload
Explore the all new AI Workload:
Understand how to address architectural challenges for designing AI workloads, including data and application design, nondeterministic functionality, and operational challenges.
Get design recommendations when incorporating generative and discriminative AI models.
Address cross-cutting challenges such as security requirements, large data volumes, model decay, skill gaps, rapid AI innovation, and maintaining ethical standards.
Learn about the recommended practices for managing the lifecycle of models, covering both MLOps and GenAIOps.
Pillars
ReliabilityEnsures that the workload meets the uptime and recovery targets by building redundancy and resiliency at scale.
Ensures that the workload meets the uptime and recovery targets by building redundancy and resiliency at scale.
SecurityProtect the workload from attacks by maintaining confidentiality and data integrity.
Protect the workload from attacks by maintaining confidentiality and data integrity.
Cost OptimizationAdopt an optimization mindset by at organizational, architectural, and tactical levels to keep your spending within budget.
Adopt an optimization mindset by at organizational, architectural, and tactical levels to keep your spending within budget.
Operational ExcellenceReduce issues in production by building holistic observability and automated systems.
Reduce issues in production by building holistic observability and automated systems.
Performance EfficiencyAdjust to changes in demands placed on the workload by through horizontal scaling and testing changes before deploying to production.
Adjust to changes in demands placed on the workload by through horizontal scaling and testing changes before deploying to production.
Workloads
Artificial Intelligence (AI)Incorporate discriminative or generative AI models in your workload for predictive analysis, generating content, and other AI use cases.
Incorporate discriminative or generative AI models in your workload for predictive analysis, generating content, and other AI use cases.
Software as a service (SaaS)Key insights for Startups and mature independent software vendors (ISVs) to build scalable, performant, reliable, and secure SaaS solutions.
Key insights for Startups and mature independent software vendors (ISVs) to build scalable, performant, reliable, and secure SaaS solutions.
Oracle on IaaSHost Oracle workloads on Azure, which includes not only Oracle Databases, but also applications such as Siebel, Peoplesoft, JD Edwards.
Host Oracle workloads on Azure, which includes not only Oracle Databases, but also applications such as Siebel, Peoplesoft, JD Edwards.
SAPEvaluate, design, and optimize an SAP workload from premigration to operations.
Evaluate, design, and optimize an SAP workload from premigration to operations.
Mission-criticalDesign and operationalize workloads that are expected to be always available and resilient to failures.
Design and operationalize workloads that are expected to be always available and resilient to failures.
SustainabilityPlan your path forward, improve your sustainability posture, and create new business value while reducing your operational footprint.
Plan your path forward, improve your sustainability posture, and create new business value while reducing your operational footprint.
Azure VMware SolutionRelocate legacy application virtual machines to Azure VMware Solution as a staging area for the first phase of your migration and modernization strategy.
Relocate legacy application virtual machines to Azure VMware Solution as a staging area for the first phase of your migration and modernization strategy.
Azure Virtual DesktopRun Windows desktops and applications on Azure from any device and location.
Run Windows desktops and applications on Azure from any device and location.
See example workloads that apply Well-Architected tenets in theAzure Architecture Center
Azure service guides
Follow us on the web