Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Explore Azure Monitor Azure Cosmos DB insights
Article
2024-08-14
3 contributors
In this article
Azure Cosmos DB insights provides a view of the overall performance, failures, capacity, and operational health of all your Azure Cosmos DB resources in a unified interactive experience. This article helps you understand the benefits of this new monitoring experience, and how you can modify and adapt the experience to fit the unique needs of your organization.
Introduction
Before you begin, you should understand how information is presented and visualized.
It delivers:
At-scale perspectiveof your Azure Cosmos DB resources across all your subscriptions in a single location. You can selectively scope to only the subscriptions and resources that you're interested in evaluating.
Drill-down analysisof a particular Azure Cosmos DB resource. You can diagnose issues or perform detailed analysis by using the categories of utilization, failures, capacity, and operations. Selecting any one of the options provides an in-depth view of the relevant Azure Cosmos DB metrics.
Customizableexperience built on top of Azure Monitor workbook templates. You can change what metrics are displayed, modify or set thresholds that align with your limits, and then save into a custom workbook. Charts in the workbooks can then be pinned to Azure dashboards.
This feature doesn't require you to enable or configure anything. These Azure Cosmos DB metrics are collected by default.
Note
There's no charge to access this feature. You'll only be charged for the Azure Monitor essential features you configure or enable, as described on theAzure Monitor pricing detailspage.
View insights from Azure portal
Sign in to theAzure portaland navigate to your Azure Cosmos DB account.
Sign in to theAzure portaland navigate to your Azure Cosmos DB account.
You can view your account metrics either from theMetricspane or theInsightspane.Metrics:This pane provides numerical metrics that are collected at regular intervals and describes some aspect of a system at a particular time. For example, you can view and monitor theserver side latency metric,normalized request unit usage metric, etc.Insights:This pane provides a customized monitoring experience for Azure Cosmos DB. Insights use the same metrics and logs that are collected in Azure Monitor and show an aggregated view for your account.
You can view your account metrics either from theMetricspane or theInsightspane.
Metrics:This pane provides numerical metrics that are collected at regular intervals and describes some aspect of a system at a particular time. For example, you can view and monitor theserver side latency metric,normalized request unit usage metric, etc.
Metrics:This pane provides numerical metrics that are collected at regular intervals and describes some aspect of a system at a particular time. For example, you can view and monitor theserver side latency metric,normalized request unit usage metric, etc.
Insights:This pane provides a customized monitoring experience for Azure Cosmos DB. Insights use the same metrics and logs that are collected in Azure Monitor and show an aggregated view for your account.
Insights:This pane provides a customized monitoring experience for Azure Cosmos DB. Insights use the same metrics and logs that are collected in Azure Monitor and show an aggregated view for your account.
Open theInsightspane. By default, the Insights pane shows the throughput, requests, storage, availability, latency, system, and management operations metrics for every container in your account. You can select theTime Range,Database, andContainerfor which you want to view insights. TheOverviewtab shows RU/s usage, data usage, index usage, throttled requests, and normalized RU/s consumption for the selected database and container.
Open theInsightspane. By default, the Insights pane shows the throughput, requests, storage, availability, latency, system, and management operations metrics for every container in your account. You can select theTime Range,Database, andContainerfor which you want to view insights. TheOverviewtab shows RU/s usage, data usage, index usage, throttled requests, and normalized RU/s consumption for the selected database and container.

The following metrics are available from theInsightspane:Throughput. This tab shows the total number of request units consumed or failed (429 response code) because the throughput or storage capacity provisioned for the container has exceeded.Requests. This tab shows the total number of requests processed by status code, by operation type, and the count of failed requests (429 response code). Requests fail when the throughput or storage capacity provisioned for the container exceeds.Storage. This tab shows the size of data and index usage over the selected time period.Availability. This tab shows the percentage of successful requests over the total requests per hour. The Azure Cosmos DB SLAs defines the success rate.Latency. This tab shows the read and write latency observed by Azure Cosmos DB in the region where your account is operating. You can visualize latency across regions for a geo-replicated account. You can also view server-side latency by different operations. This metric doesn't represent the end-to-end request latency.System. This tab shows how many metadata requests that the primary partition serves. It also helps to identify the throttled requests.Management Operations. This tab shows the metrics for account management activities such as account creation, deletion, key updates, network and replication settings.
The following metrics are available from theInsightspane:
Throughput. This tab shows the total number of request units consumed or failed (429 response code) because the throughput or storage capacity provisioned for the container has exceeded.
Throughput. This tab shows the total number of request units consumed or failed (429 response code) because the throughput or storage capacity provisioned for the container has exceeded.
Requests. This tab shows the total number of requests processed by status code, by operation type, and the count of failed requests (429 response code). Requests fail when the throughput or storage capacity provisioned for the container exceeds.
Requests. This tab shows the total number of requests processed by status code, by operation type, and the count of failed requests (429 response code). Requests fail when the throughput or storage capacity provisioned for the container exceeds.
Storage. This tab shows the size of data and index usage over the selected time period.
Storage. This tab shows the size of data and index usage over the selected time period.
Availability. This tab shows the percentage of successful requests over the total requests per hour. The Azure Cosmos DB SLAs defines the success rate.
Availability. This tab shows the percentage of successful requests over the total requests per hour. The Azure Cosmos DB SLAs defines the success rate.
Latency. This tab shows the read and write latency observed by Azure Cosmos DB in the region where your account is operating. You can visualize latency across regions for a geo-replicated account. You can also view server-side latency by different operations. This metric doesn't represent the end-to-end request latency.
Latency. This tab shows the read and write latency observed by Azure Cosmos DB in the region where your account is operating. You can visualize latency across regions for a geo-replicated account. You can also view server-side latency by different operations. This metric doesn't represent the end-to-end request latency.
System. This tab shows how many metadata requests that the primary partition serves. It also helps to identify the throttled requests.
System. This tab shows how many metadata requests that the primary partition serves. It also helps to identify the throttled requests.
Management Operations. This tab shows the metrics for account management activities such as account creation, deletion, key updates, network and replication settings.
Management Operations. This tab shows the metrics for account management activities such as account creation, deletion, key updates, network and replication settings.
View utilization and performance metrics for Azure Cosmos DB
To view the utilization and performance of your storage accounts across all your subscriptions:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Search forMonitorand selectMonitor.
Search forMonitorand selectMonitor.

SelectAzure Cosmos DB.
SelectAzure Cosmos DB.

Overview
On theOverviewpage, the table displays interactive Azure Cosmos DB metrics. You can filter the results based on the options you select from the following dropdown lists:
Subscriptions: Only subscriptions that have an Azure Cosmos DB resource are listed.
Azure Cosmos DB: You can select all, a subset, or a single Azure Cosmos DB resource.
Time Range: By default, the last four hours of information are displayed based on the corresponding selections made.
The counter tile under the dropdown lists rolls up the total number of Azure Cosmos DB resources that are in the selected subscriptions. Conditional color-coding or heatmaps for columns in the workbook report transaction metrics. The deepest color has the highest value. A lighter color is based on the lowest values.
Select a dropdown arrow next to one of the Azure Cosmos DB resources to reveal a breakdown of the performance metrics at the individual database container level.

Select the Azure Cosmos DB resource name highlighted in blue to go to the defaultOverviewfor the associated Azure Cosmos DB account.
Failures
Select theFailurestab to open theFailuresportion of the workbook template. It shows you the total requests with the distribution of responses that make up those requests:

200 OK
201 Created
404 Not Found
For a full list of status codes, seeHTTP status codes for Azure Cosmos DB.
Capacity
Select theCapacitytab to open theCapacityportion of the workbook template. It shows you:
How many documents you have.
Your document growth over time.
Data usage.
Total amount of available storage that you have left.
This information helps you to identify potential storage and data utilization issues.

As with the Overview workbook, selecting the dropdown next to an Azure Cosmos DB resource in theSubscriptioncolumn reveals a breakdown by the individual containers that make up the database.
Operations
Select theOperationstab to open theOperationsportion of the workbook template. You can see your requests broken down by the type of requests made.
In the following example, you see thateastus-billingintis predominantly receiving read requests, but with a few upsert and create requests. You can also see thatwesteurope-billingintis read-only from a request perspective, at least over the past four hours that the workbook is currently scoped to via its time range parameter.
eastus-billingint
westeurope-billingint

View from an Azure Cosmos DB resource
Search for or select any of your existing Azure Cosmos DB accounts.
Search for or select any of your existing Azure Cosmos DB accounts.

After you've moved to your Azure Cosmos DB account, in theMonitoringsection, selectInsights (preview)orWorkbooks. Now you can perform further analysis on throughput, requests, storage, availability, latency, system, and account management.
After you've moved to your Azure Cosmos DB account, in theMonitoringsection, selectInsights (preview)orWorkbooks. Now you can perform further analysis on throughput, requests, storage, availability, latency, system, and account management.

Time range
By default, theTime Rangefield displays data from the last 24 hours. You can modify the time range to display data anywhere from the last 5 minutes to the last 7 days. The time range selector also includes aCustommode. Enter the start/end dates to view a custom time frame based on available data for the selected account.

Insights overview
TheOverviewtab provides the most common metrics for the selected Azure Cosmos DB account, including:
Total Requests
Failed Requests (429s)
Normalized RU Consumption (max)
Data & Index Usage
Azure Cosmos DB Account Metrics by Collection
Total Requests: This graph provides a view of the total requests for the account broken down by status code. The units at the bottom of the graph are a sum of the total requests for the period.

Failed Requests (429s): This graph provides a view of failed requests with a status code of 429. The units at the bottom of the graph are a sum of the total failed requests for the period.

Normalized RU Consumption (max): This graph provides the maximum percentage between 0% and 100% of Normalized RU Consumption units for the specified period.

Pin, export, and expand
You can pin any one of the metric sections to anAzure dashboardby selecting the pushpin in the upper-right corner of the section.

To export your data into the Excel format, select the down arrow to the left of the pushpin.

To expand or collapse all dropdown views in the workbook, select the expand arrow to the left of the down arrow.

Customize Azure Cosmos DB insights
This experience is built on top of Azure Monitor workbook templates. You can useCustomize>Edit>Saveto modify and save a copy of your modified version into a custom workbook.

Workbooks are saved within a resource group. TheMy Reportssection is private to you. TheShared Reportssection is accessible to everyone with access to the resource group. After you save the custom workbook, you must go to the workbook gallery to start it.

Troubleshooting
For troubleshooting guidance, seeTroubleshooting workbook-based insights.
Next steps
Configuremetric alertsandService Health notificationsto set up automated alerting to aid in detecting issues.
For more information on how the scenario workbooks are designed and how to author new and customize existing reports, seeCreate interactive reports with Azure Monitor workbooks.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources