Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Networking architecture design
Article
2024-12-12
5 contributors
In this article
This article provides information about sample architectures, solutions, and guides that can help you explore networking in Azure.
Designing and implementing Azure networking capabilities is a critical part of your cloud solution. You'll need to make networking design decisions to properly support your workloads and services.
Azure provides a wide range of networking tools and capabilities. These are just some of the key networking services available in Azure:
Azure Virtual Network. Provision private networks, and optionally connect to on-premises datacenters.
Azure Virtual WAN. Optimize and automate branch-to-branch connectivity.
Azure Private Link. Enable private access to services that are hosted on the Azure platform while keeping your data on the Microsoft network.
Azure Firewall. Provide protection for your Azure Virtual Network resources.
Azure Application Gateway. Build highly secure, scalable, highly available web front ends.
Azure ExpressRoute. Create a fast, reliable, and private connection to Azure.
Azure Load Balancer. Deliver high availability and network performance to your apps.
Azure VPN Gateway. Establish high security cross-premises connectivity.
For information about more Azure networking services, seeAzure networking.
Introduction to networking on Azure
If you're new to networking on Azure, the best way to learn more is withMicrosoft Learn training, a free online training platform. Microsoft Learn provides interactive training for Microsoft products and more.
Here's a good introduction to Azure networking:
Explore Azure networking services
And here's a comprehensive learning path:
Configure and manage virtual networks for Azure administrators
Path to production
Consider these technologies and solutions as you plan and implement your deployment:
Azure Private Link in a hub-and-spoke network
Recommendations for using availability zones and regions
Choose between virtual network peering and VPN gateways
Use Azure ExpressRoute with Microsoft Power Platform
Best practices
TheAzure Well-Architected Frameworkis a set of guiding tenets, based on five pillars, that you can use to improve the quality of your architectures. These articles apply the pillars to the use of some Azure networking services:
Review of Azure Application Gateway
Review of Azure Firewall
TheCloud Adoption Frameworkis a collection of documentation, implementation guidance, best practices, and tools that are designed to accelerate your cloud adoption. You might find these articles helpful as you plan and implement your networking solution:
Connectivity to other cloud providers
Connectivity to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
Networking architectures
The following sections, organized by category, provide links to sample networking architectures.
High availability
Deploy highly available NVAs
Multi-tier web application built for HA/DR
Hybrid networking
Design a hybrid Domain Name System solution with Azure
Hybrid availability and performance monitoring
Implement a secure hybrid network
Hub-and-spoke topology
Hub-and-spoke network topology in Azure
Hub-and-spoke network topology with Azure Virtual WAN
Virtual WAN
Global transit network architecture and Virtual WAN
Interconnect with China using Azure Virtual WAN and Secure Hub
Migrate to Azure Virtual WAN
SD-WAN connectivity architecture with Azure Virtual WAN
Virtual WAN network topology (Microsoft-managed)
Virtual WAN architecture optimized for department-specific requirements
Hub-and-spoke network topology with Azure Virtual WAN
Multi-region networking
Multi-region load balancing with Azure Traffic Manager and Application Gateway
Stay current with networking
Get thelatest updates on Azure networking products and features.
Additional resources
Example solutions
These are some additional sample networking architectures:
Traditional Azure networking topology
What is an Azure landing zone?
Multitenant SaaS on Azure
Baseline highly available zone-redundant web application
Network topology and connectivity for Azure VMware Solution
Private Link and DNS integration at scale
Trusted Internet Connection (TIC) 3.0 compliance for internet-facing applications
Update route tables by using Azure Route Server
AWS or Google Cloud professionals
These articles provide service mapping and comparison between Azure and other cloud services. They can help you ramp up quickly on Azure.
Compare AWS and Azure networking options
Google Cloud to Azure services comparison - Networking
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources