Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor data sources and data collection methods
Article
2025-03-19
2 contributors
In this article
Azure Monitor is based on acommon monitoring data platformthat allows different types of data from multiple types of resources to be analyzed together using a common set of tools. Currently, different sources of data for Azure Monitor use different methods to deliver their data, and each typically require different types of configuration. This article describes common sources of monitoring data collected by Azure Monitor and their data collection methods. Use this article as a starting point to understand the option for collecting different types of data being generated in your environment.

Important
There is a cost for collecting and retaining most types of data in Azure Monitor. To minimize your cost, ensure that you don't collect any more data than you require and that your environment is configured to optimize your costs. SeeCost optimization in Azure Monitorfor a summary of recommendations.
Azure resources
Most resources in Azure generate the monitoring data described in the following table. Some services will also have other data that can be collected by enabling other features of Azure Monitor (described in other sections in this article). Regardless of the services that you're monitoring though, you should start by understanding and configuring collection of this data.
Create diagnostic settings for each of the following data types can be sent to a Log Analytics workspace, archived to a storage account, or streamed to an event hub to send it to services outside of Azure. SeeCreate diagnostic settings in Azure Monitor.
Log data from Microsoft Entra ID
Audit logs and sign in logs in Microsoft Entra ID are similar to the activity logs in Azure Monitor. Use diagnostic settings to send the activity log to a Log Analytics workspace, to archive it to a storage account, or to stream to an event hub to send it to services outside of Azure. SeeConfigure Microsoft Entra diagnostic settings for activity logs.
Apps and workloads
Application data
Application monitoring in Azure Monitor is done withApplication Insights, which collects data from applications running on various platforms in Azure, another cloud, or on-premises. When you enable Application Insights for an application, it collects metrics and logs related to the performance and operation of the application and stores it in the same Azure Monitor data platform used by other data sources.
SeeApplication Insights overviewfor further details about the data that Application insights collected and links to articles on onboarding your application.
Infrastructure
Virtual machine data
Azure virtual machines create the same activity logs and platform metrics as other Azure resources. In addition to this host data though, you need to monitor the guest operating system and the workloads running on it, which requires theAzure Monitor agentorSCOM Managed Instance. The following table includes the most common data to collect from VMs. SeeMonitor virtual machines with Azure Monitor: Collect datafor a more complete description of the different kinds of data you can collect from virtual machines.
Kubernetes cluster data
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) clusters create the same activity logs and platform metrics as other Azure resources. In addition to this host data though, they generate a common set of cluster logs and metrics that you can collect from your AKS clusters and Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters.
Custom sources
For any monitoring data that you can't collect with the other methods described in this article, you can use the APIs in the following table to send data to Azure Monitor.
Next steps
Learn more about thetypes of monitoring data collected by Azure Monitorand how to view and analyze this data.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources