Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Connect your non-Azure machines to Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Article
2025-03-13
8 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Defender for Cloud monitors the security posture of non-Azure machines, but first you need to connect them to Azure.
Connect non-Azure computers in any of the following ways:
Onboarding with Azure Arc:By using Azure Arc-enabled servers (recommended)By using the Azure portal
By using Azure Arc-enabled servers (recommended)
By using the Azure portal
Onboarding directly with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
This article describes the methods for onboarding with Azure Arc.
If you're connecting machines from other cloud providers, seeConnect your AWS accountorConnect your GCP project. The multicloud connectors for Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) in Defender for Cloud handle the Azure Arc deployment for you.
Note
The instructions on this page focus on connecting on-premises machines to Microsoft Defender for Cloud. The same guidance applies to machines in Azure VMware Solution (AVS). Learn more aboutintegrating Azure VMware Solution machines with Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
Prerequisites
To complete the procedures in this article, you need:
A Microsoft Azure subscription. If you don't have an Azure subscription, you cansign up for a free one.
A Microsoft Azure subscription. If you don't have an Azure subscription, you cansign up for a free one.
Microsoft Defender for Cloudset up on your Azure subscription.
Microsoft Defender for Cloudset up on your Azure subscription.
Access to an on-premises machine.
Access to an on-premises machine.
Connect on-premises machines by using Azure Arc
A machine withAzure Arc-enabled serversbecomes an Azure resource. Once connected to an Azure subscription with Defender for Servers enabled, it appears in Defender for Cloud, like your other Azure resources.
Azure Arc-enabled servers provide enhanced capabilities, such as enabling guest configuration policies on the machine and simplifying deployment with other Azure services. For an overview of the benefits of Azure Arc-enabled servers, seeSupported cloud operations.
To deploy Azure Arc on one machine, follow the instructions inQuickstart: Connect hybrid machines with Azure Arc-enabled servers.
To deploy Azure Arc on multiple machines at scale, follow the instructions inConnect hybrid machines to Azure at scale.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration
Defender for Servers uses anintegration with Microsoft Defender for Endpointto provide real-time threat detection, automated response capabilities, vulnerability assessments, software inventory, and more. To ensure servers are secure and receive all the security benefits of Defender for Servers, verify that theDefender for Endpoint integrationis enabled on your subscriptions.
Verify that your machines are connected
Your Azure and on-premises machines are available to view in one location.
To verify that your machines are connected:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Search for and selectMicrosoft Defender for Cloud.
Search for and selectMicrosoft Defender for Cloud.
On the Defender for Cloud menu, selectInventoryto show theasset inventory.
On the Defender for Cloud menu, selectInventoryto show theasset inventory.
Filter the page to view the relevant resource types. These icons distinguish the types:Non-Azure machineAzure VMAzure Arc-enabled server
Filter the page to view the relevant resource types. These icons distinguish the types:
Non-Azure machine
Azure VM
Azure Arc-enabled server
Integrate with Microsoft Defender XDR
When you enable Defender for Cloud, Defender for Cloud's alerts are automatically integrated into the Microsoft Defender Portal.
The integration between Microsoft Defender for Cloud and Microsoft Defender XDR brings cloud environments into Microsoft Defender XDR. With Defender for Cloud's alerts and cloud correlations integrated into Microsoft Defender XDR, SOC teams can now access all security information from a single interface.
Learn more about Defender for Cloud'salerts in Microsoft Defender XDR.
Clean up resources
There's no need to clean up any resources for this article.
Next steps
Protect all of your resources with Defender for Cloud.
Set up yourAWS accountandGCP projects.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources