Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft Azure confidential ledger
Article
2025-04-14
5 contributors
In this article
In the era of digital transformation, data integrity is paramount. As businesses increasingly rely on data-driven decisions, the accuracy and security of their data sources become critical.
Microsoft Azure confidential ledger (ACL) is a highly secure immutable data store for managing sensitive data records. The service epitomizes our commitment to secure, reliable, and immutable data storage.
The confidential ledger offers an auditable data store with unique data integrity advantages, including immutability, tamper-proofing, and append-only operations by combining cryptographic techniques and blockchain technology.
These features are ideal when critical metadata records must have their integrity protected, such as for regulatory compliance and archival purposes. Data stored in the ledger remains privacy enhanced and protected from insider threats within an organization including the cloud provider. It is also beneficial as a repository of audit trails or records that need to be protected and selectively shared with certain personas (for instance, auditors).
The confidential ledger can protect existing databases and applications by acting as a point-in-time source of truth for digests and hashes. Each transaction in the confidential ledger provides cryptographic proofs in verification scenarios. For example, your Azure SQL data can be integrity protected further, where table digests or logs can be stored in the confidential ledger.
For more information, you can learn aboutprotecting data source integrity with Azure confidential ledgeror watch a product demoAzure confidential ledger demo. You can also read a recent blog on howAzure’s hardware security is protected via ACL.

What to store
Here are a few examples of things you can store on your ledger:
Records relating to your business transactions (for example, money transfers or confidential document edits).
Updates to trusted assets (for example, core applications or contracts).
Administrative and control changes (for example, granting access permissions).
Operational IT and security events (for example, Microsoft Defender for Cloud alerts)
Use cases
I haverelational datathat requires end to end data integrity guarantees - Store your data inAzure SQL database's ledger featureand turn on Azure Confidential Ledger as your Trusted Digest store.
I haveblob datathat needs end to end integrity - Store your data in blob storage and configure theAzure Marketplace application backed by Confidential Ledgertostore signatures and verify against.
I havesystem recordsthat need integrity protection with verifiability - Store your records in the confidential ledger directly. For instance, have all your development records go to one ledger instance and have your production logs go to another instance! When it is time to audit, only selectively share ledger transactions with the auditor.
I haveconfidential transactional datathat needs confidentiality and integrity protection - Store your critical confidential data's application records in the confidential ledger directly.
Enabling data integrity for data sources
SQL databases and storage systems are foundational to enterprise data architecture. The confidential ledger enhances these systems by providing an additional layer of integrity protection. For SQL databases, ACL can act as an external ledger where changes and transactions are recorded and verified, adding a new dimension of security and trust.
For Azure Blob Storage, the confidential ledger enhances security features by providing an immutable log of storage operations, which is valuable for regulatory compliance and archival purposes where data integrity over time is crucial.
How it works
The confidential ledger runs exclusively on hardware-backed secure enclaves, a heavily monitored and isolated runtime environment, which keeps potential attacks at bay. Furthermore, Azure confidential ledger runs on a minimalistic Trusted Computing Base (TCB), which ensures that no one⁠—not even Microsoft⁠—is "above" the ledger.
As its name suggests, Azure confidential ledger utilizes theAzure Confidential Computing platformand theConfidential Consortium Frameworkto provide a high integrity solution that is tamper-protected and tamper-evident. One ledger spans across three or more identical instances, each of which run in a dedicated, fully attested hardware-backed enclave. The ledger's integrity is maintained through a consensus-based blockchain.
Key features
The confidential ledger exposes a REST interface which makes it easier to integrate with new or existing applications. Also, SDKs in popular languages (.NET, Java, Python, and JavaScript) are provided to help with the integration.
Ledger supports Collection ID for easy data management. Grouping data using collection IDs is a great way to manage and query data efficiently. It allows for easy identification and retrieval of specific data sets. This method can significantly enhance data organization, making operations like searching and updating more streamlined.
Each transaction on the ledger has an associated receipt that records the merkle tree data structure, which is used toverify the transaction's integrity. Read more about howtransaction receipts can be verified.
Data storage on the confidential ledger
The ledger data is written in blocks that are chained together and stored in Azure backed file storage. Transaction data can either be stored encrypted (for example, private ledger type) or in plain text (for example, public ledger type) depending on your needs.
Administrators can create and manage the confidential ledger with Administrative APIs (Control Plane) for example, delete a resource or move it across Resource Groups. The ledger provides Functional APIs (Data Plane) for data CRUD operations, such as create, update, put, and get.
Ledger security
The confidential ledger supports both Microsoft Entra ID and certificate-based credentials for AuthN with custom RBAC for AuthZ. Unlike other Azure services, user management is localized. In other words, users are stored and managed within the ledger using the functional APIs. This design reduces the Trusted Computing Base (TCB) and eliminates the need to rely on external authorization systems such as Azure RBAC.
The confidential ledger uses TLS 1.3 protocol to establish client connection and exchange data. The connection terminates inside the hardware backed security enclaves (Intel® SGX enclaves), thereby preventing a man-in-the-middle attack.
Applications are encouraged to verify the authenticity of the ledger nodes byauthenticating the ledger nodesto establish trust before exchanging data. This process ensures that the ledger nodes are genuine and not malicious.
Resiliency and business continuity
The confidential ledger nodes are deployed across Azure Availability Zones (AZ) to provide resiliency. The network can self-heal during zone-wide outages. To ensure business continuity, the ledger files are automatically replicated to a secondary storage account periodically. When a disaster happens, these files are used for recovery. Continuous monitoring is utilized to observe and automatically initiate recovery processes when the instance's health falls below a specified threshold.
Constraints
Once a confidential ledger is created, you cannot change the ledger type (private or public).
Azure confidential ledger deletion leads to a "hard delete", so your data will not be recoverable after deletion.
Azure confidential ledger names must be globally unique. Ledgers with the same name, irrespective of their type, are not allowed.
Terminology
Next steps
Microsoft Azure confidential ledger architecture
Quickstart: Azure portal
Quickstart: Python
Quickstart: Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources