Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Local solution overview
Article
2025-04-08
6 contributors
In this article
Applies to: Azure Local 2311.2 and later
Important
Azure Stack HCI is now part of Azure Local.Learn more.
Azure Local extends Azure to customer-owned infrastructure, enabling local execution of modern and traditional applications across distributed locations. This solution offers a unified management experience on a single control plane and supports a wide range of validated hardware from trusted Microsoft partners.
Azure Local also accelerates cloud and AI innovation by seamlessly delivering new applications, workloads, and services from cloud to edge.
Overview
An Azure Local instance consists of a machine or a cluster of machines running the Azure Stack HCI operating system and connected to Azure. You can use the Azure portal to monitor and manage individual Azure Local instances as well as view all the deployments of Azure Local. You can also manage Azure Local with your existing tools, including Windows Admin Center and PowerShell.
You canDownload the operating system softwarefrom the Azure portal with a free 60-day trial.
To acquire the machines that support Azure Local, you can purchase validated hardware from a Microsoft hardware partner with the operating system pre-installed. See theAzure Local Catalogfor hardware options and use the sizing tool to estimate hardware requirements.
Azure Local features and architecture
Azure Local is built on proven technologies including Hyper-V, Storage Spaces Direct, and core Azure Management service.
Each Azure Local instance consists of 1 to 16 physical machines. All machines share common configurations and resources by leveraging the Windows Server Failover Clustering feature.
Azure Local combines the following:
Validated hardware from a hardware partner.
Azure Stack HCI OS.
Hyper-V-based compute resources.
Storage Spaces Direct-based virtualized storage.
Windows and Linux virtual machines as Arc-enabled servers.
Azure Virtual Desktop.
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) enabled by Azure Arc.
AI and machine learning workload deployment.
Azure services including monitoring, backup, site recovery, and more.
Azure portal, Azure Resource Manager and Bicep templates, Azure CLI and tools.

SeeWhat's new in Azure Localfor details on the latest enhancements.
Why Azure Local?
There are many reasons customers choose Azure Local, including:
It provides industry-leading virtualization performance and value.
You pay for the software monthly via an Azure subscription instead of when buying the hardware.
It's familiar to Hyper-V and server admins, allowing them to leverage existing virtualization and storage concepts and skills.
It can be monitored and managed from the Azure portal or using on-premises tools such as Microsoft System Center, Active Directory, Group Policy, and PowerShell scripting.
It works with popular third-party backup, security, and monitoring tools.
Flexible hardware choices allow customers to choose the vendor with the best service and support in their geography.
Joint support between Microsoft and the hardware vendor improves the customer experience.
Solution updates make it easy to keep the entire solution up-to-date.
Common use cases for Azure Local
Customers often choose Azure Local in the following scenarios.
Azure integration benefits
Azure Local allows you to take advantage of cloud and on-premises resources working together and natively monitor, secure, and back up to the cloud.
You can use the Azure portal for an increasing number of tasks including:
Monitoring:View all of your Azure Local systems in a single, global view where you can group them by resource group and tag them.
Billing:Pay for Azure Local through your Azure subscription.
You can also subscribe to additional Azure hybrid services.
For more details on the cloud service components of Azure Local, seeAzure Local hybrid capabilities with Azure services.
What you need for Azure Local
To get started, you'll need:
One or more machines from theAzure Local Catalog, purchased from your preferred Microsoft hardware partner.
AnAzure subscription.
Operating system licenses for your workload VMs – for example, Windows Server. SeeActivate Windows Server VMs.
An internet connection for each machine in the system that can connect via HTTPS outbound traffic to well-known Azure endpoints at least every 30 days. SeeAzure connectivity requirementsfor more information.
For systems stretched across sites (functionality only available in version 22H2):At least four servers (two in each site)At least one 1 Gb connection between sites (a 25 Gb RDMA connection is preferred)An average latency of 5 ms round trip between sites if you want to do synchronous replication where writes occur simultaneously in both sites.
At least four servers (two in each site)
At least one 1 Gb connection between sites (a 25 Gb RDMA connection is preferred)
An average latency of 5 ms round trip between sites if you want to do synchronous replication where writes occur simultaneously in both sites.
If you plan to use SDN, you'll need a virtual hard disk (VHD) for the Azure Stack HCI OS to create Network Controller VMs (seePlan to deploy Network Controller).
Make sure your hardware meets theSystem requirementsand that your network meets thephysical networkandhost networkrequirements for Azure Local.
For Azure Kubernetes Service on Azure Local and Windows Server requirements, seeAKS network requirements.
Azure Local is priced on a per core basis on your on-premises machines. For current pricing, seeAzure Local pricing.
Hardware and software partners
Microsoft recommends purchasing Premier Solutions offered in collaboration with our hardware partners to provide the best experience for Azure Local solution.Microsoft partners also offer a single point of contact for implementation and support services.
Browse theAzure Local Catalogto view Azure Local solutions from Microsoft partners such as ASUS, Blue Chip, DataON, Dell EMC, Fujitsu, HPE, Hitachi, Lenovo, NEC, primeLine Solutions, QCT, and Supermicro.
Some Microsoft partners are developing software that extends the capabilities of Azure Local while allowing IT admins to use familiar tools. To learn more, seeUtility applications for Azure Local.
Next steps
Read the blog post:Introducing Azure Local: cloud infrastructure for distributed locations enabled by Azure Arc.
Learn more aboutAzure Local deployment.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources