Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cross-border connectivity and interoperability
Article
2023-12-13
5 contributors
In this article
Cross-border connectivity
Network latency in China
In general, network latency between China and the rest of the world is inevitable, because of the unpredictable network connection. For cross-border data transfer, typically there is latency of about three times than the normal distance. It's a best practice to:
Host the workload targeting Chinese users on Azure in China.
Deploy the workload to the closest Azure region for users located outside of China.
Through VPN site-to-site or ExpressRoute
If you host your workload within China, please consider global connectivity and interoperability from a hybrid cloud scenario. For more information, seePerformance and connectivity considerations.
Azure Active Directory federation
Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) has features to support all common scenarios. The guidesAuthentication with on-premises Active DirectoryandAzure AD Connectshow recommended ways and mechanisms for cloud authentication with on-premises Active Directory. It supports:
Multi-national corporations that have multiple domains.
Multi-national corporations that have a unified domain. Please note this solution does not support Dynamics 365 F&O Cross-Tenant integration services with O365, Power BI or Azure Services.
Implementation and considerations
Managing custom domain names in your Azure Active Directory
Custom installation of Azure AD Connect
Configuring federation with AD FS
Cross-border interoperability
Although Azure in China regions are disconnected with Azure global regions, you can still link between cross-border regions, via the below solutions.
1.	Connection via two individual ExpressRoute circuits

The link across both the infrastructure as a service (IaaS) and the platform as a service (PaaS) could be supported.
2.	Connection via China Express model

The model just supports a link between the infrastructure as a service (IaaS).
China Express provide will offer one-stop service for customers, and only one contract with the selected telecommunications operator is needed, which reduces the business complexity.
3.	Connection via VPN model

The link across both the infrastructure as a service (IaaS) and the platform as a service (PaaS) could be supported.
If you need support, contact your Microsoft representative.
Additional resources