Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Harm categories in Azure AI Content Safety
Article
2024-10-16
4 contributors
In this article
This guide describes all of the harm categories and ratings that Azure AI Content Safety uses to flag content. Both text and image content use the same set of flags.
Harm categories
Content Safety recognizes four distinct categories of objectionable content.
Race, ethnicity, nationality
Gender identity groups and expression
Sexual orientation
Religion
Personal appearance and body size
Disability status
Harassment and bullying
Hate
Vulgar content
Prostitution
Nudity and Pornography
Abuse
Child exploitation, child abuse, child grooming
Sexual
Weapons
Bullying and intimidation
Terrorist and violent extremism
Stalking
Violence
Eating Disorders
Bullying and intimidation
SelfHarm
Classification can be multi-labeled. For example, when a text sample goes through the text moderation model, it could be classified as both Sexual content and Violence.
Severity levels
Every harm category the service applies also comes with a severity level rating. The severity level is meant to indicate the severity of the consequences of showing the flagged content.
Text: The current version of the text model supports the full 0-7 severity scale. The classifier detects among all severities along this scale. If the user specifies, it can return severities in the trimmed scale of 0, 2, 4, and 6; each two adjacent levels are mapped to a single level.
[0,1]->0
[0,1]
0
[2,3]->2
[2,3]
2
[4,5]->4
[4,5]
4
[6,7]->6
[6,7]
6
Image: The current version of the image model supports the trimmed version of the full 0-7 severity scale. The classifier only returns severities 0, 2, 4, and 6.
0
0
2
2
4
4
6
6
Image with text: The current version of the multimodal model supports the full 0-7 severity scale. The classifier detects among all severities along this scale. If the user specifies, it can return severities in the trimmed scale of 0, 2, 4, and 6; each two adjacent levels are mapped to a single level.
[0,1]->0
[0,1]
0
[2,3]->2
[2,3]
2
[4,5]->4
[4,5]
4
[6,7]->6
[6,7]
6
Text content
Warning
Severity definitions
Warning
TheSeverity definitionstab in this document contains examples of harmful content that may be disturbing to some readers.
Hate and fairness severity levels
General, pejorative language expressing dislike against identity groups
General mentions of identity group attributes, such as race, ethnicity, religion, etc. in historical, geographical, medical, and other similar contexts with no sentiment
General terms that have no racial undertones of offensive intent outside of context
I hate cats.
Official statistics, legislation, or documentation
News/media coverage
Educational resources meant to raise awareness of diversity/tackling hate speech
Skin-whitening products and treatment ads
Mentions of Indo-Eurasian swastika, the confederate flag, non-KKK groups that have visual resemblance with KKK
Black people should not be killed by police or mistreated just because of their skin color.
Slurs spelled out fully in research papers, dictionaries, or media with direct quotes
Statements by a speaker who belongs to an identity group without intent to target the same identity group
Curse words, profanity, and verbal insults that do not target an identity group
General hate speech that targets unidentified individuals/groups without targeting an identity group
User intent of creating a blocklist of offensive terms
Representations of Nazi Germany, Hitler, the confederate flag, and Ku Klux Klan symbolism in movies, video games, costumes, toys, reenactments, or online slang
I hate you.
Opinion based on stereotyping or negative sentiment
Expresses prejudiced, judgmental, or opinionated views
Negative or positive comparisons differentiating between identity groups and others.
Mentions in fictional worlds
Employment discrimination in job postings
Historical facts and artifacts related to Nazi Germany, the Confederate flag during the US Civil War, or the Ku Klux Klan
I don't like [identity group] because they are all so aggressive. They attacked us over and over again for no reason at all.
References used to target one's race, skin color
Promotion of social avoidance and isolation
Mocking and imitating attributes of identity groups
All [identity group] are ugly.
Texts that deny historical, well-documented, and violent events such as the Holocaust
Texts that describe individuals or groups as physically or mentally inferior based on membership in an identity group
Texts that question, deny, or demean identity group existence
Enforcement of desired/expected attributes
Eugenics and 'racial improvement' theories that target identity groups
Modern merchandise that contains Nazi, the confederate flag, or KKK symbols
The [real world event] is a fraud. What we've discovered is that sources have been lying about the number of victims. Here is proof.
Hate speech propaganda that can be perceived as a direct threat to or a call for violence towards an identity group
Incendiary, offensive, and vulgar hate speech
Texts that allegedly claim one group's superiority over those with the attributes of the identity groups to justify discrimination, segregation, or exclusion
Texts describing joy regarding a violent event that targeted an identity group
Send [identity group] back to the gas chambers.
Hate crime preparation, praise, and glorification of violence against an identity group
Texts that contain supremacist groups' recruitment material
Texts meant to radicalize and encourage hate speech against an identity group
Millions of [identity group] were wiped out because they were the inferior race. Murdering them continues to be right and honorable because…
Sexual severity levels
Mentions of family relations
Content that is harmless for all target audiences, including children
The sports bra and yoga pants were too tight for comfort.
Official statistics and documentation on sex-related topics
News/media coverage
Anatomical terms, sexual anatomy, and medical treatment
Educational resources on sex, sexual wellness, awareness, etc.
Mentions of biological sex or descriptions of sexual reproduction
Texts that describe romantic relationships in non-graphic terms
Fewer young adults are having sex than in previous generations.
Mentions of literary/artistic texts, movies, sculptures, etc. that contain limited dirty talk or brief non-explicit nudity scenes
Personal experiences related to sex in general, sexual problems and traumas, sharing of coping mechanisms and resources to address such issues
User intent of creating a blocklist for sexual content
Mentions of sexual acts and nudity with light core
My husband and I introduced a vibrator to our sex life and it has really made a difference.
Personal past or present sexual experiences with some graphic content
We made out for a while, and he started to feel me up. I felt a bulge in his pants.
Fantasies of sex of different types, including imagining real or fictional nudity
Professional sex industry without descriptions of sex scenes
Advertisements for condoms, lubricants, sex toys, clothing, etc..
Descriptions of sexual reproduction between animals or animal-like characters with some graphic content
Mentions of sexual acts and nudity with soft core
I got into BDSM because I had some friends into the lifestyle and it piqued my interest. I like using silk, scarves, collars, and bondage…
Mentions of sexual, erotic or tantric massages, strip clubs, erotic shows as personal experience (not as a professional service)
Personal experiences and descriptions related to BDSM attributes and practices in general or situations with clear content to BDSM practice
Mentions of non-commercial erotic content related to sexual desire or pleasure
We both climaxed at the same time.
Mentions of stimulation of genitals with hands or other objects, masturbation, etc.
Fetish or crude content involving bodily fluids, situations of sex control, or BDSM activities without clear consent
Texts that describe sexual violence, sexual assault, rape or abuse in graphic details
Texts that attribute positive qualities to sexual assault
Texts that seek or provide instructions to perform sexual assault
Acts of blackmail and threats to reveal unconsented sexual images or videos previously recorded
I love forced sex, it's so much hotter.
Sex with animals, corpses, etc.
Paedophilia
Seeking or providing instructions on child grooming
Explicit or potential references to incest
Human sex trafficking recruitment
I was abused as a child by my uncle and I liked it. Nowadays, I make money by producing child pornography with my neighbor’s 6 year old son.
Violence severity levels
Common objects when not used as weapons
Toy guns, non-realistic or pretend guns
Mentions of ropes when not used as a noose
According to our child and parent testers, here are the best long-range soakers for soft blasters for toddlers suitable for epic water battles.
Subsets of texts that contain descriptions of violent acts, where the contextualization of the full text does not possess violent intent
Official statistics and documentation on guns, weapons, domestic violence, warfare, military, etc.
Educational resources related to violence
News/media coverage
Medical terms and content
Hunting or shooting sport and guns technical specifications
Combat practice
Counter-terrorism and terrorist symbols unrelated to ISIS/al-Qaeda
Carnivores such as lions and tigers are prone to killing one another. Death occurs at the paws, claws, jaws, or tusks that might fatally gore one another during fights.
First, second, and third person narration in video games, literary/artistic texts that depict violent or graphic scenes
Gaming tips and recommendations
Personal experiences in which an individual describes how they were exposed to some type of violence
Mentions of ropes when used as a noose without human subjects present or not related to the noose
User intent is to create a blocklist with violent content
Physical punishment is a way to correct bad behavior and doesn’t cause harm to children.
Allowing cruelty for some animals
Texts claiming positive impact of some types of violence
Some people just need to be slapped.
Texts that put the victim at fault or depict perpetrators in a positive light
Graphic descriptions of violence and death with medium gore
An autopsy report, a forensic investigation, crime or death scene
Meat and poultry facilities, and religious animal sacrifice
References to historical or recent genocides and known shooting events with mass casualties without endorsement or glorification
References to terrorist and violent extremist events without endorsement or glorification
Victims of abuse deserve to be hit. They push and push until they get what they deserve.
Texts that incite physical violence against targeted individuals/groups
Instructions on how to cause physical violence to individuals or abuse to animals
Texts seeking advice on how to perform violent acts on animals, individuals, or groups
Bullying and intimidation
Go to another state or another city and kill any stranger; for example, shoot them with a silencer gun. Since you have not any connection with him, you will not get caught.
Official terrorist or extremist propaganda materials and violent ideology on the internet
Inciting to take a violent action
We must kill them all. God wills it, and society will be better for it.
Forced labor including children, domestic servitude, or medical treatment
Online terrorist and violent extremist propaganda materials that glorify killings as a part of terrorist activity and aid offers to terrorist organizations or causes
Texts that seek instructions on affiliation with terrorist and violent extremist groups on how to recruit, influence, and train people towards the cause
Illegal harassing behaviors such as stalking or unwanted surveillance
Texts that plan and coordinate attacks on individuals or groups of people
Texts that endorse, glorify, or provide instructions on cannibalism
Let's call and threaten to explode the hospital during the weekend. I've got the explosives ready, and will have them installed tonight.
Self-harm severity levels
Mentions of body fat, fat mass index indicators by age and gender in health-related contexts
I appreciate your hard work, but you don't need to keep killing yourself over this project.
Official statistics and documentation on Non-Suicidal Self Injury (NSSI), suicide, etc.
Educational resources related to self-harm
News/media coverage
Medical terms and content
Actions that describe accidental self-harm, first aid tips, etc.
Binging and purging may be a warning sign for people with a history of extreme weight loss.
Literary/artistic texts, movies, etc. depicting characters plotting or committing suicide, engaging in self-harm, or disordered eating with no glorification or endorsement
Texts where self-harm acts or suicide is depicted with low gore
User intent is to create blocklists of self-harm terms
Oedipus stabbed his eyes in despair.
Personal experiences related to self-harm, such as asking for help before hurting themselves or committing suicide
I'm really struggling with self-loathing and thoughts of self-harm to relieve my distress after my friend took his own life last month. Please can someone give me any useful advice?
Self-injury presented as a solution to a problem, emotional distress, escape from pain/agony
Texts where self-harm or suicide contains medium gore and descriptions of tools such as a knife, a pistol, etc.
It's hilarious when [identity group] kill themselves.
Texts that seek advice or recommendations on how to perform self-harm acts except for suicide
Texts that describe personal past and present experiences of self-harm that contains explicit details
Bullying, intimidation, and pressuring that incites and promotes self-harm acts
Go kill yourself, you are worthless.
Texts that instruct how to write a goodbye message to your family
Here is a quick guide to do-it-yourself suicide. One method is asphyxia suicide by inhaling helium inside a plastic bag.
Self-decapitation
Burning alive
Get a shotgun and blow your brains out. It won't even hurt. And you'll be remembered for ages, like Kurt Cobain or Ernest Hemingway. There's nothing bad about suicide. Actually it's noble.
Image content
Warning
Severity definitions
Warning
TheSeverity definitionstab in this document contains examples of harmful content that may be disturbing to some readers.
Hate and fairness severity levels
Journalistic
Historical
Medical
Legal
Educational
Geographical
An image of the Union Jack flag of Great Britain
Protection
Nazi symbolism, the confederate flag, Ku Klux Klan symbolism
Stereotyping
Employment discrimination
Insult, isolation, mocking
Nazi flag, confederate flag, and LGBTQIA+ variations and merchandise
Racism
Attacks on LGBTQIA+
Disablism
Sex-based discrimination
Glorified Nazi symbolism, Confederate flag, Ku Klux Klan symbolism
Violent confederate flag
Sexual severity levels
Family and romantic relationships
Non-sexual nudity
Clothing
Common objects
Non-sexual pose or activity
Animal mating
Sexual wellness
Personal experiences
Fashion modeling
Nudity in artwork
Body art
Racy display
Sexual modeling
Soft nudity in artwork
Sex jobs or shops
Obscured sexual activity
Porn production backstage
Pole dancing
Amateur soft-core and hard-core pornography
Sexual solicitation
Voyeurism
Sex in artwork
BDSM with no consent or Rape
Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse
Child grooming
Incest
Violence severity levels
Sleeping or laying pose
Common objects
Non-violent activity
Ropes not as a noose
Bladed tools in use in kitchen/sewing
Wounds, scars and surgical treatment
Hunting and shooting sport
Toy and pretend guns
Combat practice
Object damage and vandalism
Non-branded terrorist symbolism
Guns, weapons, and bladed tools in display and in use
Non-realistic corpse
Non-realistic violence
Animated weapons
Light injury and personal experience
Ropes as a noose
Death in historical, educational, or funerary settings
Non-realistic terrorist symbolism
Bullfighting
Autopsy
Crime or death scene
Animal death (natural or hunted), animal sacrifice, animal abuse
Enslavement
Genocide and mass killings in historical, educational settings
Slaughterhouse
Domestic violence and physical abuse
Bullying
Guns and weapons in use against a target
Graphic injuries and death
Dismemberment, decapitation, burning alive
Corpse decomposition
Terrorism, Terrorist groups, and flags
Forced labor and servitude, forced medical procedure
Stalking
Corpse in terrorism and war crime
Shooting event
Other extremism
Self-harm severity levels
Low body fat
Non-self-harm act
Accidental body injury
Scars
Self-harm injury in recovery
Non-realistic self-harm
Emaciated individuals or animals
Autopsy
Crime or death scene
Bullying
Imminent self-harm act
Self-harm acts
Suicide
Multimodal (image with text) content
Warning
Severity definitions
Warning
TheSeverity definitionstab in this document contains examples of harmful content that may be disturbing to some readers.
Hate and fairness severity levels
Education
Media
Official statistics
History
Medicine
Science
Other similar contexts
Attends rally wearing sneakers
Slurs in research papers, dictionaries, or media with a direct quote
General hate speech that targets objects, individuals or groups
Limited hate speech or depictions of negative sentiment in fictional contexts (for example, gaming, movies, literature)
Everyone assumes that I got high grades in math because I’m Asian. I did.
Slurs in research papers, dictionaries, or media with a direct quote
General hate speech that targets objects, individuals or groups
Limited hate speech or depictions of negative sentiment in fictional contexts (for example, gaming, movies, literature)
This guy just Friended and Unfriended me 45 times in 15 seconds. Does anyone know him?
Incendiary, offensive, and vulgar content targeting specific individuals or identity groups
Claims of superiority to justify discrimination, segregation, or exclusion
Any form of glorification of Nazi and SS symbolism, KKK and the confederate flag outside of historical, educational, or artistic settings
Displays of hate crime preparation, praise and glorification of violence against Identity groups, or that praise, glorify, or endorse genocide
Never forget that everything [image of Adolf Hitler] did in Germany was legal.
Sexual severity levels
Education
Media
Official statistics
History
Medicine
Science
Mentions of family or romantic relations
Looks aren’t everything, be careful who you marry, and check your mirrors too.
Mentions of sexual anatomy or sex scenes in fictional and artistic contexts
Medical prescriptions and diagnosis
Personal experiences, sexual problems and traumas with some graphic content including coping mechanisms and resources
I hope they debate social issues I want [image of a person cupping their ear, representing "to hear"] about how a representative wants to regulate female sexual organs.
Depictions of sexual stimulation and masturbation
Pornography limited to business and prostitution, escort, etc. as careers without sex scenes
Advertisement for adult products such as sex toys
Personal experiences and descriptions related to sexual, erotic or tantric massages, strip clubs, erotic shows, BDSM attributes and practices
There is so much [image containing the phrase "Sex and Violence"] in that book it could use a warning label in the cover.
Any depiction of Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) including any explicit or potential reference to underage sex
Child grooming, child abuse, and other child exploitation
Explicit or potential references to incest, zoophilia, necrophilia, etc.
Human sex trafficking recruitment, including victim manipulation
Can too much [image of graphic pornography] actually kill you? Evidently not, because you are still with us.
Violence severity levels
Education
Media
Official statistics
History
Medicine
Science
Common objects when not used as weapons
Hunting or shooting sport and guns technical specifications
[Image of lawnmower] can easily throw a [image of rock] to a distance well over 50 feet.
Personal experiences of violence (without violent intent)
Biased, prejudiced, judgmental, or opinionated views on violence
Mentions of violent acts and death at low intensity
Runs suicides at basketball practice. Dies.
Content that puts the victim at fault or depicts perpetrators in a positive light
Historical references to genocide and the Holocaust without endorsement or glorification
References to known mass shootings without endorsement or glorification
References to terrorist and violent extremist groups and events without endorsement or glorification
Bullying and intimidation
She needs [image of a graphic that reads "to die"] already
Content that seeks instructions on affiliation with terrorist and violent extremist groups
Content that provides instructions on how to recruit followers, influence people toward a terrorist cause or extremist ideology, adopt radical views or provide training on how terrorist and violent extremist groups operate, or provide information on their leaders and members
Content that plans and coordinates attacks on individuals or groups of people, including shooting events, use of bombs and explosives on civilian infrastructure, or bladed weapon attacks when performed by non-combatants or non-terrorists
Content that references forced labor including children, domestic servitude, stalking, and forced medical procedures
I can’t wait for this [image of ISIS kafir beheading].
Self-harm severity levels
Official statistics
Education
Media
Medical
Actions that describe accidental self-harm, first aid tips, etc.
How do I tie a [image of a rope]?
Personal biased, prejudiced, judgmental or opinionated views on self-harm
Associations with eating disorders, seeking or providing instructions for drastic and unhealthy weight loss
Personal experiences related to self-harm, including seeking professional help
Life ain’t no good for a frog. Even tried to Kermit suicide.
Self-injury presented as a solution to a problem Fantasies, desire, wishes or personal experiences about self-harm/suicide
Content that seeks or gives advice, instructions or recommendations on how to perform self-harm
Bullying and intimidation that incites and promotes self-harm acts
I will [image of a knife] myself soon. But until then, how do I tame my pain?
Content that instructs how to write a goodbye message to your family
Self-decapitation
Burning alive
Black Friday [image of self-harm with text "My self-harm cuts have nearly faded completely so they won’t scar"] and [image of a kitchen mixer] deals.
Next steps
Follow a quickstart to get started using Azure AI Content Safety in your application.
Content Safety quickstart
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources