Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitoring Key Vault with Azure Event Grid
Article
2025-04-16
3 contributors
In this article
Key Vault integration with Event Grid allows users to be notified when the status of a secret stored in key vault changes. A status change is defined as a secret that is about to expire (30 days before expiration), a secret that expires, or a secret that has a new version available. Notifications for all three secret types (key, certificate, and secret) are supported.
Applications can react to these events using modern serverless architectures, without the need for complicated code or expensive and inefficient polling services. Events are pushed throughAzure Event Gridto event handlers such asAzure Functions,Azure Logic Apps, or even to your own Webhook, and you only pay for what you use. For information about pricing, seeEvent Grid pricing.
Key Vault events and schemas
Event Grid usesevent subscriptionsto route event messages to subscribers. Key Vault events contain all the information you need to respond to changes in your data. You can identify a Key Vault event because the eventType property starts with "Microsoft.KeyVault".
For more information, see theKey Vault event schema.
Warning
Notification events are triggered only on new versions of secrets, keys and certificates, and you must first subscribe to the event on your key vault in order to receive these notifications.
Practices for consuming events
Applications that handle Key Vault events should follow a few recommended practices:
Multiple subscriptions can be configured to route events to the same event handler. It's important not to assume events are from a particular source, but to check the topic of the message to ensure that it comes from the key vault you're expecting.
Similarly, check that the eventType is one you're prepared to process, and do not assume that all events you receive are the types you expect.
Ignore fields you don't understand.  This practice will help keep you resilient to new features that might be added in the future.
Use the "subject" prefix and suffix matches to limit events to a particular event.
Next steps
Azure Key Vault overview
Azure Event Grid overview
How to:Route Key Vault Events to Automation Runbook.
How to:Receive email when a key vault secret changes
Azure Event Grid event schema for Azure Key Vault
Azure Automation overview
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources