Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Set up secret scanning
Article
2025-02-20
8 contributors
In this article
Exposed credentials in engineering systems provide easily exploitable opportunities for attackers. To defend against this threat, GitHub Advanced Security for Azure DevOps scans for credentials and other sensitive content in your source code. Push protection also prevents any credentials from being leaked in the first place.
Secret scanning for your repository scans for any secrets that might already exist in your source code across history and push protection prevents any new secrets from being exposed in source code.
GitHub Advanced Security for Azure DevOps works with Azure Repos. To use GitHub Advanced Security with GitHub repositories, seeGitHub Advanced Security.
Prerequisites
For more information about Advanced Security permissions, seeManage Advanced Security permissions.
About secret scanning alerts
When you enable Advanced Security, it scans repositories for secrets issued by various service providers and generates secret scanning alerts.
If access to a resource requires paired credentials, secret scanning creates an alert only when both parts of the pair are detected in the same file. Pairing ensures that the most critical leaks aren't hidden behind information about partial leaks. Pair matching also helps reduce false positives since both elements of a pair must be used together to access the provider's resource.
The Advanced Security tab atRepos>Advanced Securityin Azure DevOps is the hub to view your security alerts. Select theSecretstab to view secret scanning alerts. You can filter by state and secret type. Navigate into an alert for more details, including remediation guidance. After you enable Advanced Security, a scan kicks off for the selected repository, including all historical commits. Over time, alerts will start to appear as the scan progresses.
Renaming branches doesn't affect the results. However, it might take up to 24 hours for the new name to display.

To remediate exposed secrets, invalidate the exposed credential and create a new one in its place. The newly created secret should then be stored securely in a way that doesn't directly push it back into the code. For example, the secret could be stored in Azure Key Vault. Most resources have both a primary and secondary credential. The method to roll a primary credential over versus a secondary credential are identical, unless otherwise noted.
Manage secret scanning alerts
Viewing alerts for a repository
Select theSecretstab to view all secret scanning alerts.
If Advanced Security was recently enabled for your repository, you might see a card indicating that Advanced Security is still scanning your repository.

Once the scan is complete, any results are displayed. A single alert gets generated for each detected unique credential, across all branches and history of your repository. There are no branch filters as they're rolled up into one alert.
Nonprovider secrets are viewable by selecting "Other" from the confidence dropdown on the secret scanning tab.

Alert details
When you navigate into an alert, a detailed alert view appears and reveals more details about the finding and provide specific remediation guidance to resolve the alert.

With nonprovider secrets, theConfidence: othertag also appears by the severity badge in the alert detail view.

Fixing secret scanning alerts
Each secret has unique remediation steps to guide you through how to revoke and regenerate a new secret in its place. The alert detail shares specific steps or documentation for each alert.
A secret scanning alert stays open until closed. To attest that a secret scanning alert is fixed:
Navigate to the alert you wish to close and select the alert.
Select theClose alertdrop-down.
If not already selected, selectFixed.
SelectCloseto submit and close the alert.

Dismissing secret scanning alerts
To dismiss an alert, do the following steps:
Navigate to the alert you wish to close and select on the alert.
Select theClose alertdrop-down.
If not already selected, select eitherRisk acceptedorFalse positiveas the closure reason.
Add an optional comment into theCommenttext box.
SelectCloseto submit and close the alert.
The alert state changes fromOpentoClosedand displays your dismissal reason.

You can manually open any previously dismissed alert.
Make compromised secrets secure
Once a secret gets committed to a repository, the secret is compromised. Microsoft recommends the following actions for compromised secrets:
Important
We recommend usingMicrosoft Entra tokens. For more information about our efforts to reduce PAT usage, seeour blog.
Review ourauthentication guidanceto choose the appropriate authentication mechanism for your needs.
For a compromised Azure DevOps personal access token, delete the compromised token, create a new token, and update any services that use the old token.
For all other secrets, first verify that the secret committed to Azure Repos is valid. If so, create a new secret, update any services that use the old secret, and then delete the old secret.
Identify any actions taken by the compromised token on your enterprise's resources.
When you update a secret, store the new secret securely and ensure that it never gets stored as plaintext. One option is to use Azure Key Vault or other secret management solutions.
Secret push protection
Push protection checks any incoming pushes for high-confidence secrets and prevent the push from going through. An error message displays all identified secrets for you to remove them or continue to push the secrets if needed.
About push protection alerts
Push protection alerts are user alerts that reported by push protection. Secret scanning as a push protection currently scans repositories for secrets issued by some service providers.
If access to a resource requires paired credentials, then secret scanning might create an alert only when both parts of the pair are detected in the same file. The pairing ensures that the most critical leaks aren't hidden behind information about partial leaks. Pair matching also helps reduce false positives since both elements of a pair must be used together to access the provider's resource.
Push protection might not block older versions of certain tokens as these tokens might generate a higher number of false positives than their most recent version. Push protection might also not block legacy tokens. For tokens such as Azure Storage Keys, Advanced Security only supports recently created tokens, not tokens that match the legacy patterns.
Push protection from the command line
Push protection is built natively into Azure DevOps Git. If your commits contain an identified secret, the following error displays that your push was rejected.

Push protection from the web interface
Push protection also works from the web interface. If a secret is identified in a commit, the following error block displays, which stops you from pushing your changes:

What to do if your push was blocked
Push protection blocks secrets found in plain text files that are usually (but not limited to) text files such as source code or JSON configuration files. These secrets are stored in plaintext. If a bad actor gains access to the files and they get published to a public repository, the secrets are usable by anyone.
Remove the secret from the flagged file, and then remove the secret from the commit history. If the flagged secret is a placeholder or example secret, update the fake secret to prepend the stringPlaceholderin front of the fake secret.
Placeholder
If the secret was added in your immediate previous commit, amend the commit and create a new commit:
Remove the secret from your code.
Commit the changes by usinggit commit --amend
git commit --amend
Push your changes again.
If the secret was added further back in history, edit your commits using an interactive rebase:
Usegit logto determine which commit you first committed the secret.
git log
Perform an interactive rebase:git rebase -i [commit ID before credential introduction]~1
git rebase -i [commit ID before credential introduction]~1
Identify your commit to edit by changingpicktoediton the first line of the text that appears in the editor.
pick
edit
Remove the secret from your code.
Commit the change withgit commit --amend.
git commit --amend
Finish the rebase by runninggit rebase --continue.
git rebase --continue
Push a blocked secret
Don't bypass flagged secrets because doing so can put your company’s security at risk. If you confirm that an identified secret isn't a false positive, remove the secret from your entire branch history before you attempt to push your changes again.
If you believe a blocked secret is a false positive or safe to push, you can bypass push protection. Include the stringskip-secret-scanning:truein your commit message. Even if you bypass push protection, a secret scanning alert is generated in the alert UX once the secret gets pushed.
skip-secret-scanning:true
Related articles
Troubleshoot secret scanning
Learn about secret scanning patterns
Set up code scanning
Set up dependency scanning
Learn about GitHub Advanced Security for Azure DevOps
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources