Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
IoT Hub quotas and throttling
Article
2024-06-18
32 contributors
In this article
This article explains the limits that apply to IoT Hub resources.
Each Azure subscription can have at most 50 IoT hubs, and at most 1 hub in the free tier.
Each IoT hub is provisioned with units in a specific tier. The tier and number of units determine the maximum daily quota of messages. The message size used to calculate the daily quota is 0.5 KB for a free tier hub and 4 KB for all other tiers. For more information, seeAzure IoT Hub pricingorChoose the right IoT Hub tier for your solution.
You can find your hub's quota limit in the Azure portal. Your IoT hub'sOverviewpage lists theDaily message quota. You can also view and adjust this limit inHub settings>Pricing and scale.
The tier also determines the throttling limits that IoT Hub enforces on all operations.
Operation throttles
Operation throttles are rate limitations that are applied in minute ranges and are intended to prevent abuse. They're also subject totraffic shaping.
It's a good practice to throttle your calls so that you don't hit/exceed the throttling limits. If you do hit the limit, IoT Hub responds with error code 429, and the client should back-off and retry. These limits are per hub (or in some cases per hub per unit). For more information, seeRetry patterns.
For pricing details about which operations are charged and under what circumstances, seebilling information.
Basic and standard tier operations
The following table shows the enforced throttles for operations that are available in all IoT Hub tiers. Values refer to an individual hub.
Standard tier operations
The following table shows the enforced throttles for operations that are available in standard tiers only. Values refer to an individual hub.
1Throttling meter size is 4 KB. Throttling is based on request payload size only.
Throttling details
The meter size determines at what increments your throttling limit is consumed. If your direct call's payload is between 0 KB and 4 KB, it counts as 4 KB. You can make up to 40 calls per second per unit before hitting the limit of 160 KB/sec/unit.Similarly, if your payload is between 4 KB and 8 KB, each call accounts for 8 KB and you can make up to 20 calls per second per unit before hitting the max limit.Finally, if your payload size is between 156 KB and 160 KB, you can make only one call per second per unit in your hub before hitting the limit of 160 KB/sec/unit.
The meter size determines at what increments your throttling limit is consumed. If your direct call's payload is between 0 KB and 4 KB, it counts as 4 KB. You can make up to 40 calls per second per unit before hitting the limit of 160 KB/sec/unit.
Similarly, if your payload is between 4 KB and 8 KB, each call accounts for 8 KB and you can make up to 20 calls per second per unit before hitting the max limit.
Finally, if your payload size is between 156 KB and 160 KB, you can make only one call per second per unit in your hub before hitting the limit of 160 KB/sec/unit.
ForJobs device operations (update twin, invoke direct method)for tier S3, 50/sec/unit only applies to when you invoke methods using jobs. If you invoke direct methods directly, the original throttling limit of 24 MB/sec/unit (for S3) applies.
ForJobs device operations (update twin, invoke direct method)for tier S3, 50/sec/unit only applies to when you invoke methods using jobs. If you invoke direct methods directly, the original throttling limit of 24 MB/sec/unit (for S3) applies.
Your cloud-to-device and device-to-cloud throttles determine the maximumrateat which you can send messages irrespective of 4 KB chunks. Device-to-cloud messages can be up to 256 KB; cloud-to-device messages can be up to 64 KB. These are the maximum message sizes for each type of message.
Your cloud-to-device and device-to-cloud throttles determine the maximumrateat which you can send messages irrespective of 4 KB chunks. Device-to-cloud messages can be up to 256 KB; cloud-to-device messages can be up to 64 KB. These are the maximum message sizes for each type of message.
Traffic shaping
To accommodate burst traffic, IoT Hub accepts requests above the throttle for a limited time. The first few of these requests are processed immediately. However, if the number of requests continues to violate the throttle, IoT Hub starts placing the requests in a queue and requests are processed at the limit rate. This effect is calledtraffic shaping. Furthermore, the size of this queue is limited. If the throttle violation continues, eventually the queue fills up, and IoT Hub starts rejecting requests with429 ThrottlingException.
429 ThrottlingException
For example, you send 200 device-to-cloud messages per second to your S1 IoT Hub (which has a limit of 100 messages/sec). For the first minute or two, the messages are processed immediately. However, since the device continues to send more messages than the throttle limit, IoT Hub begins to only process 100 messages per second and puts the rest in a queue. You start noticing increased latency. Eventually, you start getting429 ThrottlingExceptionas the queue fills up, and the"Number of throttling errors" IoT Hub metricstarts increasing. To learn how to create alerts and charts based on metrics, seeMonitor IoT Hub.
429 ThrottlingException
Identity registry operations throttle
Device identity registry operations are intended for run-time use in device management and provisioning scenarios. Reading or updating a large number of device identities is supported throughimport and export jobs.
The same throttle limits apply to identity operations made throughbulk registry update operations(notbulk import and export jobs). For example, if you submit multiple bulk operations to create 50 devices each, and you have an S1 IoT Hub with one unit, only two of these bulk requests are accepted per minute. This limitation is because the identity operation throttle for an S1 IoT Hub with one unit is 100/min/unit. Also in this case, a third request (and beyond) in the same minute would be rejected because the limit has been reached.
Device connections throttle
Thedevice connectionsthrottle governs the rate at which new device connections can be established with an IoT hub. Thedevice connectionsthrottle doesn't relate to the maximum number of simultaneously connected devices. Increase the number of units in an IoT hub to increase thedevice connectionsrate.
For example, if you buy a single S1 unit, you get a throttle of 100 connections/second. Therefore, to connect 100,000 devices, it takes at least 1,000 seconds (approximately 16 minutes). However, you can have as many simultaneously connected devices as you have devices registered in your identity registry (up to 1,000,000).
Other limits
IoT Hub enforces other operational limits:
1This feature isn't available in the basic tier of IoT Hub. For more information, seeHow to choose the right IoT Hub.
Increase the quota or throttle limit
At any given time, you can increase quotas or throttle limits byincreasing the number of provisioned units in an IoT hub.
Latency
IoT Hub strives to provide low latency for all operations. However, due to network conditions and other unpredictable factors it can't guarantee a certain latency. When designing your solution, you should:
Avoid making assumptions about the maximum latency of any IoT Hub operation.
Provision your IoT hub in the Azure region closest to your devices.
Consider usingAzure IoT Edgeto perform latency-sensitive operations on the device or on a gateway close to the device.
Adding IoT Hub units affects throttling as described previously, but doesn't provide additional latency benefits or guarantees.
If you see unexpected increases in operation latency, contactMicrosoft Support.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources