Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Compliance in Azure Cosmos DB
Article
2024-10-03
10 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:NoSQLMongoDBCassandraGremlinTable
Azure Cosmos DB is available in all Azure regions. Microsoft makes the following Azure cloud environments available to customers:
Azureis available globally. It is sometimes referred to as Azure commercial, Azure public, or Azure global.
Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianetis available through a unique partnership between Microsoft and 21Vianet, one of the country’s largest Internet providers.
Azure Governmentis available from five regions in the United States to US government agencies and their partners. Two regions (US DoD Central and US DoD East) are reserved for exclusive use by the US Department of Defense.
Azure Government Secretis available from three regions exclusively for the needs of US Government and designed to accommodate classified Secret workloads and native connectivity to classified networks.
Azure Government Top Secretserves America's security mission and empowers leaders across the Intelligence Community (IC), Department of Defense (DoD), and Federal Civilian agencies to process security workloads classified at the US Top Secret level.
To help you meet your own compliance obligations across regulated industries and markets worldwide, Azure maintains the largest compliance portfolio in the industry both in terms of breadth (total number ofcompliance offerings) and depth (number ofcustomer-facing servicesin assessment scope). For service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Azure compliance offerings are grouped into four segments - globally applicable, US Government, industry specific, and region/country specific.  Compliance offerings are based on various types of assurances, including formal certifications, attestations, validations, authorizations, and assessments produced by independent third-party auditing firms, as well as contractual amendments, self-assessments, and customer guidance documents produced by Microsoft.
Azure Cosmos DB certifications
To find out the latest compliance certifications for Azure Cosmos DB, seeMicrosoft Azure Compliance offerings, Appendix A & B.
Next steps
To learn more about Azure compliance coverage, see the following articles:
To find out the latest compliance certifications for Azure Cosmos DB, seeMicrosoft Azure Compliance offerings, Appendix A & B.
For recommendations to improve the security posture of your Azure Cosmos DB deployment, seeAzure Cosmos DB security baseline.
For more information about Azure certifications, seeAzure compliance documentation.
For FedRAMP and DoD compliance audit scope, seeCloud services by audit scope.
For DoD compliance information, seeDoD IL4andDoD IL5compliance coverage.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources