Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Oracle on Azure IaaS landing zone accelerator
Article
2024-08-07
5 contributors
In this article
The Oracle on Azure infrastructure as a service (IaaS) landing zone accelerator is an open-source collection of Terraform, Bicep, and Ansible templates. You can use these templates to automate the deployment of an environment that can host Oracle on Azure virtual machines. The landing zone accelerator provides a specific architectural approach and reference implementation that you can use to prepare your landing zones. These landing zones adhere to the architecture and best practices of the Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure.
You can adopt Oracle on Azure IaaS in various ways. You can adapt the landing zone accelerator to produce an architecture that fits your scenario and puts your organization on a path to scale sustainably.
Prerequisites
The Oracle on Azure IaaS landing zone accelerator assumes that you already successfully implemented an Azure landing zone. However, you can use the Oracle on Azure IaaS landing zone accelerator if your infrastructure doesn't conform to Azure landing zones. For more information, see these articles:
Start with Cloud Adoption Framework enterprise-scale landing zones
Implement Cloud Adoption Framework enterprise-scale landing zones in Azure
Oracle on Azure IaaS landing zone accelerator assets
The landing zone accelerator provides these assets to support your project:
A modular approach so that you can customize environment variables.
Design guidelines that help you make critical decisions.
The landing zone architecture.
An implementation that includes:A deployable reference that can create the environment for your Oracle on Azure IaaS deployment.A Microsoft-recommended Oracle on Azure IaaS reference implementation to test the deployed environment.
A deployable reference that can create the environment for your Oracle on Azure IaaS deployment.
A Microsoft-recommended Oracle on Azure IaaS reference implementation to test the deployed environment.
Design guidelines
For guidelines to create your landing zone, see these articles:
Network topology and connectivity for Oracle on Azure Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator
Security guidelines for Oracle on Azure Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator
Business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) for Oracle on Azure Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator
Manage and monitor Oracle workloads on Azure Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator
Example conceptual reference architecture
This diagram shows an example conceptual reference architecture that illustrates design areas and best practices.

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Get the Oracle on Azure IaaS landing zone accelerator
The Oracle on Azure IaaS landing zone accelerator is availableon GitHub.
Next step
To see more recommendations for your architecture, review the Oracle on Azure IaaS landing zone acceleratordesign areas.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources