Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Arc-enabled servers?
Article
2025-01-23
18 contributors
In this article
Azure Arc-enabled servers lets you manage Windows and Linux physical servers and virtual machines hostedoutsideof Azure, on your corporate network, or other cloud provider. For the purposes of Azure Arc, these machines hosted outside of Azure are considered hybrid machines. The management of hybrid machines in Azure Arc is designed to be consistent with how you manage native Azure virtual machines, using standard Azure constructs such as Azure Policy and applying tags. (For additional information about hybrid environments, seeWhat is a hybrid cloud?)
When a hybrid machine is connected to Azure, it becomes a connected machine and is treated as a resource in Azure. Each connected machine has a Resource ID enabling the machine to be included in a resource group.
To connect hybrid machines to Azure, you install theAzure Connected Machine agenton each machine. This agent doesn't replace the AzureAzure Monitor Agent. The Azure Monitor Agent for Windows and Linux is required in order to:
Proactively monitor the OS and workloads running on the machine
Manage it using Automation runbooks or solutions like Update Management
Use other Azure services likeMicrosoft Defender for Cloud
You can install the Connected Machine agent manually, or on multiple machines at scale, using thedeployment methodthat works best for your scenario.
Note
This service supportsAzure Lighthouse, which lets service providers sign in to their own tenant to manage subscriptions and resource groups that customers have delegated.
Note
For additional guidance regarding the different services Azure Arc offers, seeChoosing the right Azure Arc service for machines.
Supported cloud operations
When you connect your machine to Azure Arc-enabled servers, you can perform many operational functions, just as you would with native Azure virtual machines. Below are some of the key supported actions for connected machines.
Govern:AssignAzure machine configurationsto audit settings inside the machine. To understand the cost of using Azure Machine Configuration policies with Arc-enabled servers, see Azure Policypricing guide.
AssignAzure machine configurationsto audit settings inside the machine. To understand the cost of using Azure Machine Configuration policies with Arc-enabled servers, see Azure Policypricing guide.
Protect:Protect non-Azure servers withMicrosoft Defender for Endpoint, included throughMicrosoft Defender for Cloud, for threat detection, for vulnerability management, and to proactively monitor for potential security threats. Microsoft Defender for Cloud presents the alerts and remediation suggestions from the threats detected.UseMicrosoft Sentinelto collect security-related events and correlate them with other data sources.
Protect non-Azure servers withMicrosoft Defender for Endpoint, included throughMicrosoft Defender for Cloud, for threat detection, for vulnerability management, and to proactively monitor for potential security threats. Microsoft Defender for Cloud presents the alerts and remediation suggestions from the threats detected.
UseMicrosoft Sentinelto collect security-related events and correlate them with other data sources.
Configure:UseAzure Automationfor frequent and time-consuming management tasks using PowerShell and Pythonrunbooks. Assess configuration changes for installed software, Microsoft services, Windows registry and files, and Linux daemons using the Azure Monitor agent forchange tracking and inventory.UseAzure Update Managerto manage operating system updates for your Windows and Linux servers. Automate onboarding and configuration of a set of Azure services when you useAzure Automanage.Perform post-deployment configuration and automation tasks using supportedArc-enabled servers VM extensionsfor your non-Azure Windows or Linux machine.
UseAzure Automationfor frequent and time-consuming management tasks using PowerShell and Pythonrunbooks. Assess configuration changes for installed software, Microsoft services, Windows registry and files, and Linux daemons using the Azure Monitor agent forchange tracking and inventory.
UseAzure Update Managerto manage operating system updates for your Windows and Linux servers. Automate onboarding and configuration of a set of Azure services when you useAzure Automanage.
Perform post-deployment configuration and automation tasks using supportedArc-enabled servers VM extensionsfor your non-Azure Windows or Linux machine.
Monitor:Monitor operating system performance and discover application components to monitor processes and dependencies with other resources usingVM insights.Collect other log data, such as performance data and events, from the operating system or workloads running on the machine with theAzure Monitor Agent. This data is stored in aLog Analytics workspace.
Monitor operating system performance and discover application components to monitor processes and dependencies with other resources usingVM insights.
Collect other log data, such as performance data and events, from the operating system or workloads running on the machine with theAzure Monitor Agent. This data is stored in aLog Analytics workspace.
Log data collected and stored in a Log Analytics workspace from the hybrid machine contains properties specific to the machine, such as a Resource ID, to supportresource-contextlog access.
Watch this video to learn more about Azure monitoring, security, and update services across hybrid and multicloud environments.
Supported regions
For a list of supported regions with Azure Arc-enabled servers, see theAzure products by regionpage.
In most cases, the location you select when you create the installation script should be the Azure region geographically closest to your machine's location. Data at rest is stored within the Azure geography containing the region you specify, which may also affect your choice of region if you have data residency requirements. If the Azure region your machine connects to has an outage, the connected machine isn't affected, but management operations using Azure may be unable to complete. If there's a regional outage, and if you have multiple locations that support a geographically redundant service, it's best to connect the machines in each location to a different Azure region.
Instance metadata information about the connected machineis collected and stored in the region where the Azure Arc machine resource is configured, including the following:
Operating system name and version
Computer name
Computers fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
Connected Machine agent version
For example, if the machine is registered with Azure Arc in the East US region, the metadata is stored in the US region.
Supported environments
Azure Arc-enabled servers support the management of physical servers and virtual machines hostedoutsideof Azure. For specific details about supported hybrid cloud environments hosting VMs, seeConnected Machine agent prerequisites.
Note
Azure Arc-enabled servers is not designed or supported to enable management of virtual machines running in Azure.
Agent status
The status for a connected machine can be viewed in the Azure portal underAzure Arc > Servers.
The Connected Machine agent sends a regular heartbeat message to the service every five minutes. If the service stops receiving these heartbeat messages from a machine, that machine is considered offline, and its status will automatically be changed toDisconnectedwithin 15 to 30 minutes. Upon receiving a subsequent heartbeat message from the Connected Machine agent, its status will automatically be changed back toConnected.
If a machine remains disconnected for 45 days, its status may change toExpired. An expired machine can no longer connect to Azure and requires a server administrator to disconnect and then reconnect it to Azure to continue managing it with Azure Arc. The exact date upon which a machine expires is determined by the expiration date of the managed identity's credential, which is valid up to 90 days and renewed every 45 days.
If a machine is receiving 429 error messages or shows intermittent connection statuses, it could be an incorrectly cloned machine. SeeCloning guidelinesfor more information.
Service limits
There's no limit to how many Arc-enabled servers and VM extensions you can deploy in a resource group or subscription. The standard 800 resource limit per resource group applies to the Azure Arc Private Link Scope resource type.
To learn more about resource type limits, see theResource instance limitarticle.
Data residency
Azure Arc-enabled servers stores customer data. By default, customer data stays within the region the customer deploys the service instance in. For region with data residency requirements, customer data is always kept within the same region.
Next steps
Before evaluating or enabling Azure Arc-enabled servers across multiple hybrid machines, review theConnected Machine agent overviewto understand requirements, technical details about the agent, and deployment methods.
Try out Arc-enabled servers by using theAzure Arc Jumpstart.
Review thePlanning and deployment guideto plan for deploying Azure Arc-enabled servers at any scale and implement centralized management and monitoring.
Explore theAzure Arc landing zone accelerator for hybrid and multicloud.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources