Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Authenticating Azure confidential ledger nodes
Article
2025-04-14
4 contributors
In this article
Code samples and users can authenticate Azure confidential ledger nodes. There are two methods to authenticate ledger nodes: code sample's node certificate when querying the identity service and validation through users to confirm they are in fact using the ledger's enclaves.
Code samples
When initializing, code samples get the node certificate by querying the Identity Service. The code sample retrieves the node certificate before querying the ledger to get a quote, which is then validated using the Host Verify binaries. If the verification succeeds, the code sample proceeds to ledger operations.
Users
Users can validate the authenticity of Azure confidential ledger nodes to confirm they are indeed interfacing with their ledger's enclave. You can build trust in Azure confidential ledger nodes in a few ways, which can be stacked on one another to increase the overall level of confidence. As such, steps 1 and 2 are important confidence building mechanisms for users of Azure confidential ledger enclave as part of the initial TLS handshake and authentication within functional workflows. Furthermore, a persistent client connection is maintained between the user's client and the confidential ledger.
Validating a confidential ledger node: A confidential ledger node is validated by querying the identity service hosted by Microsoft, which provides a service certificate and thus helps verify that the ledger node is presenting a certificate endorsed/signed by the service certificate for that specific instance. A well-known Certificate Authority (CA) or intermediate CA signs a server's certificate using PKI-based HTTPS. In the case of Azure confidential ledger, the CA certificate is returned by the Identity Service in the form of the service certificate. If this node certificate isn't signed by the returned service certificate, the client connection should fail (as implemented in the sample code).
Validating a confidential ledger node: A confidential ledger node is validated by querying the identity service hosted by Microsoft, which provides a service certificate and thus helps verify that the ledger node is presenting a certificate endorsed/signed by the service certificate for that specific instance. A well-known Certificate Authority (CA) or intermediate CA signs a server's certificate using PKI-based HTTPS. In the case of Azure confidential ledger, the CA certificate is returned by the Identity Service in the form of the service certificate. If this node certificate isn't signed by the returned service certificate, the client connection should fail (as implemented in the sample code).
Validating a confidential ledger enclave: A confidential ledger runs in an Intel® SGX enclave represented by a remote attestation report (or quote), a data blob generated inside that enclave. It can be used by any other entity to verify that the quote has been produced from an application running with Intel® SGX protections. The quote contains claims that help identify various properties of the enclave and the application that it's running. In particular, it contains the SHA-256 hash of the public key contained in the confidential ledger node's certificate. The quote of a confidential ledger node can be retrieved by calling a functional workflow API.
Validating a confidential ledger enclave: A confidential ledger runs in an Intel® SGX enclave represented by a remote attestation report (or quote), a data blob generated inside that enclave. It can be used by any other entity to verify that the quote has been produced from an application running with Intel® SGX protections. The quote contains claims that help identify various properties of the enclave and the application that it's running. In particular, it contains the SHA-256 hash of the public key contained in the confidential ledger node's certificate. The quote of a confidential ledger node can be retrieved by calling a functional workflow API.
Next steps
Overview of Microsoft Azure confidential ledger
Azure confidential ledger architecture
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources