Azure load balancing and content delivery documentation
Learn about the various Azure load balancing and content delivery services available that provide security for your resources in Azure. Services include Azure Load Balancer, Azure Gateway Load Balancer, Azure Application Gateway, and Azure Front Door.
Concept
Architecture
Concept
Concept
Get started
Optimize app delivery with Azure Application Gateway for HTTP/HTTPS traffic.
Manage distribution of load-balanced traffic for public and internal traffic with Azure Load Balancer.
Manage web application performance and global routing with Azure Front Door.
Use cases and scenarios
Design and deploy a load balancing solution that meets your application requirements
Load balance your applications and workloads in Azure.
Quickstart: Create a public load balancer to load balance VMs using the Azure portal
What is Azure Load Balancer?
Azure Load Balancer components
Gateway Load Balancer
Improve performance and globally scale your applications in Azure.
What is Azure Application Gateway?
Application Gateway infrastructure configuration
Rewrite HTTP headers and URL with Application Gateway
Generate an Azure Application Gateway self-signed certificate with a custom root CA
Deploy global applications for high performance and availability.
What is Azure Front Door?
Configure HTTPS on an Azure Front Door custom domain by using the Azure portal
Comparison between Azure Front Door and Azure CDN services
Web Application Firewall (WAF) on Azure Front Door
Learn more about Azure load balancing and content delivery
Explore additional resources to help you design and deploy a load balancing solution
Training modules
Configure Azure Load Balancer
Improve application scalability and resiliency by using Azure Load Balancer
Configure Azure Application Gateway
Introduction to Azure Front Door
Azure Well-Architected Framework
Operational excellence and Azure Load Balancer
Azure Well-Architected Framework review - Azure Application Gateway v2
Azure Well-Architected Framework perspective on Azure Front Door
Azure Architecture Center
Load-balancing options
Azure Front Door Architecture and Concepts
Zero-trust network for web applications with Azure Firewall and Application Gateway
Cloud Adoption Framework
Plan for application delivery
Introduction to Azure application delivery services
Networking services
Network Foundations

Network security

Hybrid connectivity

Network monitoring and management
