Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure security baseline for Azure Cache for Redis
Article
2025-02-25
1 contributor
In this article
This security baseline applies guidance from theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark version 1.0to Azure Cache for Redis. The Microsoft cloud security benchmark provides recommendations on how you can secure your cloud solutions on Azure. The content is grouped by the security controls defined by the Microsoft cloud security benchmark and the related guidance applicable to Azure Cache for Redis.
You can monitor this security baseline and its recommendations using Microsoft Defender for Cloud. Azure Policy definitions will be listed in the Regulatory Compliance section of the Microsoft Defender for Cloud portal page.
When a feature has relevant Azure Policy Definitions, they are listed in this baseline to help you measure compliance with the Microsoft cloud security benchmark controls and recommendations. Some recommendations may require a paid Microsoft Defender plan to enable certain security scenarios.
Note
Featuresnot applicable to Azure Cache for Redis have been excluded. To see how Azure Cache for Redis completely maps to the Microsoft cloud security benchmark, see thefull Azure Cache for Redis security baseline mapping file.
Security profile
The security profile summarizes high-impact behaviors of Azure Cache for Redis, which may result in increased security considerations.
Network security
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Network security.
NS-1: Establish network segmentation boundaries
Description: Service supports deployment into customer's private Virtual Network (VNet).Learn more.
Feature notes: This feature is only supported with a Premium tier Azure Cache for Redis instance.
Configuration Guidance: Deploy the service into a virtual network. Assign private IPs to the resource (where applicable) unless there is a strong reason to assign public IPs directly to the resource.
Reference:Configure virtual network support for a Premium Azure Cache for Redis instance
Description: Service network traffic respects Network Security Groups rule assignment on its subnets.Learn more.
Feature notes: This feature is only applicable for VNet injected caches.
Configuration Guidance: Use network security groups (NSG) to restrict or monitor traffic by port, protocol, source IP address, or destination IP address. Create NSG rules to restrict your service's open ports (such as preventing management ports from being accessed from untrusted networks). Be aware that by default, NSGs deny all inbound traffic but allow traffic from virtual network and Azure Load Balancers.
Reference:Configure virtual network support for a Premium Azure Cache for Redis instance
NS-2: Secure cloud services with network controls
Description: Service native IP filtering capability for filtering network traffic (not to be confused with NSG or Azure Firewall).Learn more.
Feature notes: This feature is not supported on caches deployed in classic VNets.
Configuration Guidance: Deploy private endpoints for all Azure resources that support the Private Link feature, to establish a private access point for the resources.
Reference:Azure Cache for Redis with Azure Private Link
Description: Service supports disabling public network access either through using service-level IP ACL filtering rule (not NSG or Azure Firewall) or using a 'Disable Public Network Access' toggle switch.Learn more.
Feature notes: This feature is not supported on caches deployed in classic VNets. The publicNetworkAccess flag is disabled by default.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Azure Cache for Redis with Azure Private Link
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Cache:
Identity management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Identity management.
IM-1: Use centralized identity and authentication system
Description: Service supports using Azure AD authentication for data plane access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Description: Local authentications methods supported for data plane access, such as a local username and password.Learn more.
Feature notes: Avoid the usage of local authentication methods or accounts, these should be disabled wherever possible. Instead use Azure AD to authenticate where possible. Never disable authentication entirely by setting theAuthNotRequiredproperty to true, as this is highly discouraged from a security perspective and would allow unauthenticated access to your cache data.
AuthNotRequired
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment. Ensure that theAuthNotRequiredproperty is not set to true in your Redis configuration.
AuthNotRequired
Reference:How to configure Azure Cache for Redis,RedisCommonConfiguration.AuthNotRequired Property,Redis REST API - Create
IM-3: Manage application identities securely and automatically
Description: Data plane actions support authentication using managed identities.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Description: Data plane supports authentication using service principals.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
IM-7: Restrict resource access based on conditions
Description: Data plane access can be controlled using Azure AD Conditional Access Policies.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
IM-8: Restrict the exposure of credential and secrets
Description: Data plane supports native use of Azure Key Vault for credential and secrets store.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Privileged access
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Privileged access.
PA-1: Separate and limit highly privileged/administrative users
Description: Service has the concept of a local administrative account.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
PA-7: Follow just enough administration (least privilege) principle
Description: Azure Role-Based Access Control (Azure RBAC) can be used to managed access to service's data plane actions.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
PA-8: Determine access process for cloud provider support
Description: Customer Lockbox can be used for Microsoft support access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Data protection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Data protection.
DP-1: Discover, classify, and label sensitive data
Description: Tools (such as Azure Purview or Azure Information Protection) can be used for data discovery and classification in the service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
DP-2: Monitor anomalies and threats targeting sensitive data
Description: Service supports DLP solution to monitor sensitive data movement (in customer's content).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
DP-3: Encrypt sensitive data in transit
Description: Service supports data in-transit encryption for data plane.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:How to configure Azure Cache for Redis
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Cache:
DP-4: Enable data at rest encryption by default
Description: Data at-rest encryption using platform keys is supported, any customer content at rest is encrypted with these Microsoft managed keys.Learn more.
Feature notes: This feature is not supported on caches deployed in classic VNets.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
DP-5: Use customer-managed key option in data at rest encryption when required
Description: Data at-rest encryption using customer-managed keys is supported for customer content stored by the service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
DP-6: Use a secure key management process
Description: The service supports Azure Key Vault integration for any customer keys, secrets, or certificates.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
DP-7: Use a secure certificate management process
Description: The service supports Azure Key Vault integration for any customer certificates.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Asset management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Asset management.
AM-2: Use only approved services
Description: Service configurations can be monitored and enforced via Azure Policy.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Microsoft Defender for Cloud to configure Azure Policy to audit and enforce configurations of your Azure resources. Use Azure Monitor to create alerts when there is a configuration deviation detected on the resources. Use Azure Policy [deny] and [deploy if not exists] effects to enforce secure configuration across Azure resources.
Reference:Azure Policy built-in definitions for Azure Cache for Redis
Logging and threat detection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Logging and threat detection.
LT-1: Enable threat detection capabilities
Description: Service has an offering-specific Microsoft Defender solution to monitor and alert on security issues.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
LT-4: Enable logging for security investigation
Description: Service produces resource logs that can provide enhanced service-specific metrics and logging. The customer can configure these resource logs and send them to their own data sink like a storage account or log analytics workspace.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Enable resource logs for the service. For example, Key Vault supports additional resource logs for actions that get a secret from a key vault or and Azure SQL has resource logs that track requests to a database. The content of resource logs varies by the Azure service and resource type.
Reference:Monitor Azure Cache for Redis data using diagnostic settings
Backup and recovery
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Backup and recovery.
BR-1: Ensure regular automated backups
Description: The service can be backed up by the Azure Backup service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Description: Service supports its own native backup capability (if not using Azure Backup).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Next steps
See theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark overview
Learn more aboutAzure security baselines
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources