Microsoft industry documentation and resources
Microsoft offers a range of solutions, guidance, and resources tailored to your industry. This documentation includes information about the Microsoft Clouds for Healthcare, Financial Services, Retail, Manufacturing, Nonprofit, Sovereignty, and Sustainability.
Microsoft Industry Clouds
The Microsoft Industry Clouds are tailored solutions built for your industry that combine Microsoft Azure, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Dynamics 365, Microsoft Fabric, and Microsoft Power Platform.
Find information about the Microsoft Cloud for Financial Services and other solutions for the Financial Services industry. Help improve customer and employee experiences, and help protect accounts and purchases with the Microsoft Cloud for Financial Services.
Find information about the Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare and other solutions for the Healthcare industry. The Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare provides a comprehensive solution for your healthcare organization, combining the power of Microsoft products and the partner healthcare solution ecosystem.
Microsoft Cloud for Manufacturing is designed for delivering capabilities that support the core processes and requirements of the industry.
Deploy solutions from Microsoft Dynamics 365, Microsoft Power Platform, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Azure, and LinkedIn that help your nonprofit organization engage with donors and supporters, deliver effective programming, and accelerate mission outcomes.
Find information about Microsoft Cloud for Retail and other solutions for the retail industry. Help connect your customers, your people, and your data with Microsoft Cloud for Retail.
Microsoft Cloud for Sovereignty offers trusted public sector solutions designed to help you migrate, build, and digitally transform workloads in the Microsoft Cloud while meeting your compliance, security, and policy requirements.
Help your company take control of your environmental initiatives with this set of comprehensive, integrated, and automated insights for accelerating each stage of your sustainability journey with Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability.
Explore patterns, best practices, and detailed diagrams for learning more about successfully deploying Microsoft Cloud industry solutions.
Improve the quality of your Microsoft Cloud for industry workloads with comprehensive checklists, design principles, and best practices.
Product-specific architectures and solutions for your industry
Find example architectures, solution ideas, and related guidance for your industry created for Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Dynamics 365, Microsoft Power Platform, and Microsoft 365.
Mobility
Microsoft solutions for mobility and software-defined vehicles.
Energy and resources
Azure solutions for the energy and environment industries
Key Compliance and Security Considerations for the Energy Industry
Azure Data Manager for Energy
Government
Azure solutions for Government
Microsoft Teams for Government
Training for government
Media and Telecommunications
Azure solutions for the media and entertainment industry
Dynamics 365 media and entertainment accelerator
Dynamics 365 telecommunications accelerator
Agriculture
Azure Data Manager for Agriculture
Apps, solutions, and customers stories
Find apps, solutions, and ideas for how to use Microsoft products in your industry.
AppSource
Find apps for your industry from Microsoft and partners - compatible with the Microsoft Industry Clouds.
Azure industry solutions
Find Azure solutions for your industry.
Industry Solutions in Microsoft Fabric
Integrate different data sources for analytics and reporting.
Industry solutions on the Microsoft Trust Center
Find solutions for your industry on the Microsoft Trust Center.
Customer stories
Learn about what worked for other customers - filter customer stories by industry.
Copilots and generative AI
Learn about copilots and generative AI in Microsoft Industry Clouds.