Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Scale migration of VMs
Article
2024-11-29
8 contributors
In this article
This article helps you understand how to use scripts to migrate large number of virtual machines (VMs). To scale migration, you useAzure Site Recovery.
Site Recovery scripts are available for your download atAzure PowerShell Samplesrepo on GitHub. The scripts can be used to migrate VMware, AWS, GCP VMs, and physical servers to managed disks in Azure. You can also use these scripts to migrate Hyper-V VMs if you migrate the VMs as physical servers. The scripts that leverage Azure Site Recovery PowerShell are documentedhere.
Current limitations
Supports specifying the static IP address only for the primary NIC of the target VM.
The scripts do not take Azure Hybrid Benefit related inputs; you need to manually update the properties of the replicated VM in the portal.
How does it work?
Prerequisites
Before you get started, you need to do the following steps:
Ensure that the Site Recovery vault is created in your Azure subscription.
Ensure that the Configuration Server and Process Server are installed in the source environment and the vault can discover the environment.
Ensure that a Replication Policy is created and associated with the Configuration Server.
Ensure that you have added the VM admin account to the config server (that will be used to replicate the on premises VMs).
Ensure that the following target artifacts in Azure are created:Target Resource GroupTarget Storage Account (and its Resource Group) - Create a premium storage account if you plan to migrate to premium-managed disksCache Storage Account (and its Resource Group) - Create a standard storage account in the same region as the vaultTarget Virtual Network for failover (and its Resource Group)Target SubnetTarget Virtual Network for Test failover (and its Resource Group)Availability Set (if needed)Target Network Security Group and its Resource Group
Target Resource Group
Target Storage Account (and its Resource Group) - Create a premium storage account if you plan to migrate to premium-managed disks
Cache Storage Account (and its Resource Group) - Create a standard storage account in the same region as the vault
Target Virtual Network for failover (and its Resource Group)
Target Subnet
Target Virtual Network for Test failover (and its Resource Group)
Availability Set (if needed)
Target Network Security Group and its Resource Group
Ensure that you have decided on the following properties of the target VMTarget VM nameTarget VM size in Azure (can be decided using Azure Migrate assessment)Private IP Address of the primary NIC in the VM
Target VM name
Target VM size in Azure (can be decided using Azure Migrate assessment)
Private IP Address of the primary NIC in the VM
Download the scripts fromAzure PowerShell Samplesrepo on GitHub
CSV Input file
Once you have completed all the pre-requisites, you need to create a CSV file, which has data for each source machine that you want to migrate. The input CSV must have a header line with the input details and a row with details for each machine that needs to be migrated. All the scripts are designed to work on the same CSV file. A sample CSV template is available in the scripts folder for your reference.
Script execution
Once the CSV is ready, you can execute the following steps to perform migration of the on-premises VMs:
How to migrate to managed disks?
The script, by default, migrates the VMs to managed disks in Azure. If the target storage account provided is a premium storage account, premium-managed disks are created post migration. The cache storage account can still be a standard account. If the target storage account is a standard storage account, standard disks are created post migration.
Next steps
Learn moreabout migrating servers to Azure using Azure Site Recovery
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources