Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What's new in AKS on Azure Local
Article
2025-04-08
1 contributor
In this article
Applies to: AKS on Azure Local
This article lists the various features and improvements that are available in AKS enabled by Azure Arc on Azure Local.
Note
AKS on Azure Local is only supported on Azure Local version 23H2 and later.
About AKS on Azure Local
AKS on Azure Local usesAzure Arcto create new Kubernetes clusters on Azure Local directly from Azure. It enables you to use familiar tools like the Azure portal, Azure CLI, and Azure Resource Manager templates to create and manage your Kubernetes clusters running on Azure Local. Since clusters are automatically connected to Arc when they are created, you can use your Microsoft Entra ID for connecting to your clusters from anywhere. This ensures your developers and application operators can provision and configure Kubernetes clusters in accordance with company policies.
Microsoft continues to focus on delivering a consistent user experience for all your AKS clusters. If you have created and managed Kubernetes clusters using Azure, you'll feel right at home managing Kubernetes clusters running on Azure Local using Azure portal or Azure CLI management experiences.
Simplified AKS component management on Azure Local
AKS on Azure Local includes several infrastructure components that provide Azure experiences, including the Arc Resource Bridge, Custom Location, and the Kubernetes Extension for the AKS Arc operator. These infrastructure components are now included in Azure Local:
Arc Resource Bridge: The Arc Resource Bridge is created automatically when you deploy Azure Local. This lightweight Kubernetes VM connects your Azure Local to Azure Cloud and enables on-premises resource management from Azure. Azure Arc Resource Bridge provides the line of sight to private clouds required to manage resources such as Kubernetes clusters on-premises through Azure.
Custom Location: Just like Azure Arc Resource Bridge, a custom location is created automatically when you deploy Azure Local. A custom location is the on-premises equivalent of an Azure region and is an extension of the Azure location construct. Custom locations provide a way for tenant administrators to use their data center with the right extensions installed, as target locations for deploying AKS.
Kubernetes Extension for AKS Arc Operators: The Kubernetes Extension for AKS Operators is automatically installed on Arc Resource Bridge when you deploy Azure Local. It's the on-premises equivalent of an Azure Resource Manager resource provider, to help manage AKS via Azure.
By integrating these components, Azure Arc offers a unified and efficient Kubernetes provisioning and management solution, seamlessly bridging the gap between on-premises and cloud infrastructures.
Key personas
Infrastructure administrator: The role of the infrastructure administrator is to set up Azure Local, which includes all the infrastructure component deployments previously mentioned. Administrators must also set up the platform configuration, such as the networking and storage configuration, so that Kubernetes operators can create and manage Kubernetes clusters.
Kubernetes operator: Kubernetes operators can create and manage Kubernetes clusters on Azure Local so they can run applications without coordinating with infrastructure administrators. The operator is given access to the Azure subscription, Azure custom location, and virtual network by the infrastructure administrator. No access to the underlying on-premises infrastructure is necessary. Once the operator has the required access, they can create Kubernetes clusters according to application needs: Windows/Linux node pools, Kubernetes versions, etc.
Features and improvements
This section lists the new features and improvements in AKS Arc in each release of Azure Local.
Release 2503
The following Kubernetes cluster deployment and management capabilities are available:
Large VM SKUs for Kubernetes nodepools: Added two new VM SKUs -Standard_D32s_v3: 32 vCPU, 128 GiB andStandard_D16s_v3: 16 vCPU, 64 GiB - to support larger nodepools on an AKS cluster. For more information about supported VM sizes, seesupported scale options.
Standard_D32s_v3
Standard_D16s_v3
Improved log collection experience: Improved log collection for AKS control plane node VMs and nodepool VMs, with support for passing multiple IP addresses and SSH key or directory path. For more information, seeon-demand log collectionandaz aksarc get-logs CLI.
Improved diagnosability: TheDiagnostic Checker toolis automatically run in case of Kubernetes cluster create failure, and added new test cases.
Improved Kubernetes cluster delete: Fixed deletion issues; for example, due topod disruption budgets.
Improved AKS Arc image download: Fixed issues with AKS Arc image downloads.
Improved GPU support: Improved error handling for Kubernetes cluster creation with GPU enabled nodepools. Fixed known issues with attaching persistent volumes on GPU enabled nodepools.
To get started with these features in the 2503 release, make sure to update yourAKSArc CLI extensionto version 1.5.37 or higher.
The Kubernetes versions supported in the 2503 release are: 1.28.12, 1.28.14, 1.29.7, 1.29.9, 1.30.3 and 1.30.4.
Release 2411
The following Kubernetes cluster deployment and management capabilities are available:
Workload Identity (preview). You can now deploy AKS Arc clusters with workload identity enabled and deploy application pods with the workload identity label to access Microsoft Entra ID protected resources, such as Azure Key Vault. For more information, seeDeploy and configure Workload Identity.
Arc Gateway integration (preview). You can now deploy AKS Arc clusters with pod-level Arc Proxy and communicate with the Arc gateway, reducing the list of outbound URLs to configure in an isolated network environment. For more information, seeSimplify network configuration requirements with Azure Arc Gateway.
Control Plane IP. You can now deploy AKS Arc clusters without specifying the control plane IP. The IP address is assigned automatically. For more information, seethis section in the network system requirements article.
Disable Windows image download. You can now disable Windows image downloads by disabling the Windows node pool after cluster creation, reducing network traffic over HTTP connections and providing better support for low bandwidth environments. For more information, seeDisable Windows nodepool feature on Azure Local.
Terraform (preview). You can now create AKS Arc clusters with Terraform modules and smart defaults. For more information, seeCreate clusters using Terraform.
Error handling. Error handling is now improved to prevent logical network deletions with dependent cluster resources, GPU misconfigurations, and more.
To get started with these features in the 2411 release, make sure to update yourAKSArc CLI extensionto version 1.4.23 or higher.
The Kubernetes versions supported in the 2411 release are 1.27.7, 1.27.9, 1.28.5, 1.28.9, 1.29.2, and 1.29.4.
Release 2408
The following Kubernetes cluster deployment and management capabilities are available:
High availability improvements. You can now deploy nodes with anti-affinity on specific physical hosts on Azure Local clusters. For more information, seeAvailability sets.
PowerShell. You can now use PowerShell cmdlets to manage your AKS Arc clusters on Azure Local with CRUD support. For more information, see thePowerShell reference documentation.
Error report improvements. You can now get improved error case reporting with prechecks; for example, a check for incorrect Kubernetes versions and available GPU capacity.
Support for NVIDIA T4. You can now create node pools in new VM sizes with GPU NVIDIA T4. For more information, seeUse GPUs.
Arc Gateway. You can now use the Arc Gateway to configure very few of the outbound URLs to use AKS clusters on Azure Local.
Support pod CIDR. You can now create an AKS Arc cluster with a user-specified pod CIDR IP arrange.
Release 2405
The following Kubernetes cluster deployment and management capabilities are available:
Azure RBAC support. You can now enable Azure RBAC for Kubernetes while creating AKS Arc clusters using Azure CLI and Azure Resource Manager templates.
Taints and labels update. You can now update taints and labels during an AKS Arc node pool update operation using Azure CLI and Azure Resource Manager templates.
AKS Arc cluster platform metrics and alerts. You can now view AKS Arc cluster metrics (platform metrics) and create metric-based alerts.
Auto cert repair. You can now automatically repair certificates, managed by cert-tattoo, that expired when the cluster was shut down.
Download VHDs manually (offline download). This feature, now available only in private preview, enables you to download virtual machine images and upload them to the target center using a manual process. This can help in environments in which downloading large files is inconvenient. If you are interested in using it, contact your Microsoft Account representative.
The following component versions are supported in release 2405:
Release 2402
The following Kubernetes cluster deployment and management capabilities are available:
Autoscaling. You can now enable the autoscaling feature when you create or update Kubernetes clusters and node pools.
Support for NVIDIA A16. You can now create node pools in new VM sizes with GPU NVIDIA A16. For more information, seeUse GPUs for compute-intensive workloads.
Diagnostic settings. You can export audit logs and other control plane logs to one or more destinations. For more information, seeDiagnostic settings in Azure Monitor.
Certificate expiration. You can now shut down Kubernetes clusters for up to 7 days without any certificate expiration issues.
Update status. You can now view the status of ongoing Kubernetes cluster upgrades.
Release 2311.2
AKS enabled by Azure Arc on Azure Local is generally available starting with this release.
The following Kubernetes cluster deployment and management capabilities are available:
New CLI extension and Azure portal experience. The new GA version of the Azure CLI extension starting with this release isaz aksarc. For more information, seeCreate Kubernetes clusters using Azure CLI. You can also see the new portal cluster creation experience inCreate Kubernetes clusters using the Azure portal.
Support for logical networks. Starting with this release, creating Kubernetes clusters on Azure Local requireslogical networksas a prerequisite. For more information, seeHow to create logical networks.
Available K8S versions and VM sizes. You can useaz aksarc get-versionsandaz aksarc vmsize listto get the available Kubernetes versions and VM sizes on your system.
az aksarc get-versions
az aksarc vmsize list
Support for Taints and labels. SeeManage node poolsfor a cluster, andUse cluster labelsto set the taints and labels for node pools.
Support for upgrading a Kubernetes cluster using Azure CLI. You can use the Azure CLI to upgrade a Kubernetes cluster to a newer version and apply the OS version updates. For more information, seeUpgrade a Kubernetes cluster.
Support for both disks and files for persistent volumes. To support stateful applications, you can use the default storage class for disks, or a custom storage class that points to a specific storage path. SeeUse persistent volumesandUse Container Storage Interface (CSI) disk drivers. You can also create persistent volumes on file shares, in either SMB or NFS. For more information, seeUse Container Storage Interface (CSI) file drivers.
Support for NVIDIA A2. You can now create node pools with new VM sizes with GPU NVIDIA A2. For more information, seeUse GPUs for compute-intensive workloads.
Release 2311
Starting with this release, you can run Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) workloads on your Azure Local instance. AKS on Azure Local uses Azure Arc to create new Kubernetes clusters on Azure Local directly from Azure.
The following Kubernetes cluster deployment and management capabilities are available:
Simplified infrastructure deployment on Azure Local. In this release, the infrastructure components of AKS Arc, including the Arc Resource Bridge, Custom Location, and the Kubernetes Extension for the AKS Arc operator, are all deployed as part of the Azure Local deployment. For more information, seeDeploy an Azure Local instance using the Azure portal.
Integrated infrastructure upgrade on Azure Local. The whole lifecycle management of AKS Arc infrastructure follows the same approach as the other components on Azure Local. For more information, seeInfrastructure component updates.
New CLI consistent with Azure. Starting with this release, a new consistent command-line experience is available to create and manage Kubernetes clusters.
Cloud-based management. You can now create and manage Kubernetes clusters on Azure Local with familiar tools such as the Azure portal and Azure CLI. For more information, seeCreate Kubernetes clusters using Azure CLI.
Support for Azure Container Registry to deploy container images. In this release, you can deploy container images from a private container registry using Azure Container Registry to your Kubernetes clusters running on Azure Local. For more information, seeDeploy from private container registry to on-premises Kubernetes.
Support for managing and scaling the node pools. For more information, seeManage multiple node pools in AKS Arc.
Support for Linux and Windows Server containers. For more information, seeCreate Windows Server containers.
Next steps
Review AKS on Azure Local prerequisites
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources