Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of Microsoft cloud security benchmark (v1)
Article
2025-04-23
3 contributors
In this article
The Microsoft cloud security benchmark (MCSB) provides prescriptive best practices and recommendations to help improve the security of workloads, data, and services on Azure and your multi-cloud environment. This benchmark focuses on cloud-centric control areas with input from a set of holistic Microsoft and industry security guidance that includes:
Cloud Adoption Framework: Guidance on security, includingstrategy, roles and responsibilities,Azure Top 10 Security Best Practices, andreference implementation.
Azure Well-Architected Framework: Guidance onsecuring your workloads on Azure.
The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Workshop:Program guidance and reference strategies to accelerate security modernization using Zero Trust principles.
Other industry and cloud service providers security best practice standards and framework: Examples include the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Well-Architected Framework, Center for Internet Security (CIS) Controls, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS).
What's new in Microsoft cloud security benchmark v1
Note
Microsoft cloud security benchmark is the successor of Azure Security Benchmark (ASB), which was rebranded in October 2022.
Google Cloud Platform support in MCSB is now available as a preview feature both in MCSB benchmark guidance and Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
Here's what's new in the Microsoft cloud security benchmark v1:
Comprehensive multi-cloud security framework: Organizations often have to build an internal security standard to reconcile security controls across multiple cloud platforms to meet security and compliance requirements on each of them. This often requires security teams to repeat the same implementation, monitoring and assessment across the different cloud environments (often for different compliance standards). This creates unnecessary overhead, cost, and effort. To address this concern, we enhanced the ASB to MCSB to help you quickly work with different clouds by:Providing a single control framework to easily meet the security controls across cloudsProviding consistent user experience for monitoring and enforcing the multi-cloud security benchmark in Defender for CloudStaying aligned with Industry Standards (e.g., CIS, NIST, PCI)
Comprehensive multi-cloud security framework: Organizations often have to build an internal security standard to reconcile security controls across multiple cloud platforms to meet security and compliance requirements on each of them. This often requires security teams to repeat the same implementation, monitoring and assessment across the different cloud environments (often for different compliance standards). This creates unnecessary overhead, cost, and effort. To address this concern, we enhanced the ASB to MCSB to help you quickly work with different clouds by:
Providing a single control framework to easily meet the security controls across clouds
Providing consistent user experience for monitoring and enforcing the multi-cloud security benchmark in Defender for Cloud
Staying aligned with Industry Standards (e.g., CIS, NIST, PCI)

Automated control monitoring for AWS in Microsoft Defender for Cloud: You can use Microsoft Defender for CloudRegulatory Compliance Dashboardto monitor your AWS environment against MCSB just like how you monitor your Azure environment. We developed approximately 180 AWS checks for the new AWS security guidance in MCSB, allowing you to monitor your AWS environment and resources in Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
Automated control monitoring for AWS in Microsoft Defender for Cloud: You can use Microsoft Defender for CloudRegulatory Compliance Dashboardto monitor your AWS environment against MCSB just like how you monitor your Azure environment. We developed approximately 180 AWS checks for the new AWS security guidance in MCSB, allowing you to monitor your AWS environment and resources in Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

A refresh of the existing Azure guidance and security principles: We also refreshed some of the existing Azure security guidance and security principles during this update so you can stay current with the latest Azure features and capabilities.
A refresh of the existing Azure guidance and security principles: We also refreshed some of the existing Azure security guidance and security principles during this update so you can stay current with the latest Azure features and capabilities.
Controls
Recommendations in Microsoft cloud security benchmark
Each recommendation includes the following information:
ID: The Benchmark ID that corresponds to the recommendation.
CIS Controls v8 ID(s): The CIS Controls v8 control(s) that correspond to the recommendation.
CIS Controls v7.1 ID(s): The CIS Controls v7.1 control(s) that correspond to the recommendation (not available in the web due to the formatting reason).
PCI-DSS v3.2.1 ID(s): The PCI-DSS v3.2.1 control(s) that correspond to the recommendation.
NIST SP 800-53 r4 ID(s): The NIST SP 800-53 r4 (Moderate and High) control(s) correspond to this recommendation.
Security Principle: The recommendation focused on the "what", explaining the control at the technology-agnostic level.
Azure Guidance: The recommendation focused on the "how", explaining the Azure technical features and implementation basics.
AWS Guidance: The recommendation focused on the "how", explaining the AWS technical features and implementation basics.
Implementation and additional context: The implementation details and other relevant context which links to the Azure and AWS service offering documentation articles.
Customer Security Stakeholders: Thesecurity functionsat the customer organization who may be accountable, responsible, or consulted for the respective control. It may be different from organization to organization depending on your company’s security organization structure, and the roles and responsibilities you set up related to Azure security.
The control mappings between MCSB and industry benchmarks (such as CIS, NIST, and PCI) only indicate that a specific Azure feature(s) can be used to fully or partially address a control requirement defined in these industry benchmarks. You should be aware that such implementation does not necessarily translate to the full compliance of the corresponding control(s) in these industry benchmarks.
We welcome your detailed feedback and active participation in the Microsoft cloud security benchmark effort. If you would like to provide direct input, please email us atbenchmarkfeedback@microsoft.com.
Download
You can download the Benchmark and baseline offline copy inspreadsheet format.
Next steps
See the first security control:Network security
Read theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark introduction
Learn theAzure Security Fundamentals
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources