Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL?
Article
2024-08-14
3 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL (powered by theCitus database
extensionto PostgreSQL)
Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL is a managed service for PostgreSQL extended
with theCitus open sourcesuperpower ofdistributed tables. This superpower enables you to build highly scalable
relational apps.  You can start building apps on a single node cluster, the
same way you would with PostgreSQL. As your app's scalability and performance
requirements grow, you can seamlessly scale to multiple nodes by transparently
distributing your tables.
Real-world customer applications built on Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL include software-as-a-service (SaaS) apps, real-time
operational analytics apps, and high throughput transactional apps. These apps
span various verticals such as sales and marketing automation, healthcare,
Internet of Things (IoT) data, finance, logistics, and search.

Implementation checklist
As you're looking to create applications with Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL, ensure you've
reviewed the following articles:
Learn how tobuild scalable apps.
Connect and query with yourapp stack.
See how theAzure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL APIextends PostgreSQL, and tryuseful diagnostic queries.
Pick the bestcluster sizefor your workload.
Learn how to use Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL as thestorage backend for multiple microservices.
Monitorcluster performance.
Ingest data efficiently withAzure Stream AnalyticsandAzure Data Factory.
Fully managed, resilient database
As Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL is a fully managed service, it has all the features for
worry-free operation in production. Features include:
automatic high availability
backups
built-in pgBouncer
read-replicas
easy monitoring
private endpoints
encryption
and more
Try the quickstart >
Always the latest PostgreSQL features
Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL is powered by theCitusopen source extension to
PostgreSQL. Because Citus isn't a fork of Postgres, the Citus extension always
supports the latest PostgreSQL major version within a week of release--with
support added to our managed service on Azure at most a few weeks later.
Your apps can use the newest PostgreSQL features and extensions, such as
native partitioning for performance, JSONB support to store and query
unstructured data, and geospatial functionality via the PostGIS extension.
It's the speed you need, on the database you love.
Start simply, scale seamlessly
A database cluster can begin as a single node, while
having the superpower of distributing tables. At a few dollars a day, it's the
most cost-effective way to experience Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL. Later, if your
application requires greater scale, you can add nodes and rebalance your data.
Next steps
Create a new accountusing the Azure portal.
Connect to a clusterwith psql.
Use the Citus extension todistribute tables.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources