Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
SAP HANA (Large Instances) storage architecture
Article
2023-02-10
3 contributors
In this article
In this article, we'll look at the storage architecture for deploying SAP HANA on Azure Large Instances (also known as BareMetal Infrastructure).
The storage layout for SAP HANA on Azure (Large Instances) is configured by SAP HANA on the classic deployment model per SAP recommended guidelines.
Type I class of HANA Large Instances come with four times the memory volume as storage volume. Whereas Type II class of HANA Large Instances come with a volume intended for storing HANA transaction log backups. For more information, seeInstall and configure SAP HANA (Large Instances) on Azure.
See the following table for storage allocation. The table lists the rough capacity for volumes provided with the different HANA Large Instance units.
More recent SKUs of HANA Large Instances are delivered with the following storage configurations.
Actual deployed volumes might vary based on deployment and the tool used to show the volume sizes.
If you subdivide a HANA Large Instance SKU, a few examples of possible division pieces might look like:
These sizes are rough volume numbers that can vary slightly based on deployment and the tools used to look at the volumes. There are also other partition sizes, such as 2.5 TB. These storage sizes are calculated using a formula similar to the one used for the previous partitions. The term "partitions" doesn't mean the operating system, memory, or CPU resources are partitioned. It indicates storage partitions for the different HANA instances you might want to deploy on one single HANA Large Instance unit.
If you need more storage, you can buy more in 1-TB units. The extra storage may be added as more volume or used to extend one or more of the existing volumes. You can't reduce the sizes of the volumes as originally deployed and as documented by the previous tables. You also aren't able to change the names of the volumes or mount names. The storage volumes previously described are attached to the HANA Large Instance units as NFS4 volumes.
You can use storage snapshots for backup and restore and disaster recovery purposes. For more information, seeSAP HANA (Large Instances) high availability and disaster recovery on Azure.
For more information on the storage layout for your scenario, seeHLI supported scenarios.
Run multiple SAP HANA instances on one HANA Large Instance unit
It's possible to host more than one active SAP HANA instance on HANA Large Instance units. To provide the capabilities of storage snapshots and disaster recovery, such a configuration requires a volume set per instance. Currently, HANA Large Instance units can be subdivided as follows:
S72, S72m, S96, S144, S192: In increments of 256 GB, with 256 GB as the smallest starting unit. Different increments such as 256 GB and 512 GB can be combined to the maximum memory of the unit.
S144m and S192m: In increments of 256 GB, with 512 GB as the smallest unit. Different increments such as 512 GB and 768 GB can be combined to the maximum memory of the unit.
Type II class: In increments of 512 GB, with the smallest starting unit of 2 TB. Different increments such as 512 GB, 1 TB, and 1.5 TB can be combined to the maximum memory of the unit.
The following examples show what it might look like running multiple SAP HANA instances.
There are other variations as well.
Encryption of data at rest
The storage for HANA Large Instances uses transparent encryption for the data, as it's stored on the disks. In deployments before the end of 2018, you could have the volumes encrypted. If you decided against that option, you could have the volumes encrypted online. The move from non-encrypted to encrypted volumes is transparent and doesn't require downtime.
With the Type I class of SKUs of HANA Large Instance, the volume storing the boot LUN is encrypted. In Revision 3 HANA Large Instance stamps using Type II class of SKUs, you need to encrypt the boot LUN with OS methods. In Revision 4 HANA Large Instance stamps using Type II class of SKUs, the volume storing the boot LUN is encrypted at rest by default.
Required settings for larger HANA instances on HANA Large Instances
The storage used in HANA Large Instances has a file size limitation. Thesize limitation is 16 TBper file. Unlike file size limitations in the EXT3 file systems, HANA isn't implicitly aware of the storage limitation enforced by HANA Large Instances storage. As a result, HANA won't automatically create a new data file when the file size limit of 16 TB is reached. As HANA attempts to grow the file beyond 16 TB, HANA will report errors and the index server will finally crash.
Important
In order to prevent HANA from trying to grow data files beyond the 16 TB file size limit of HANA Large Instance storage, you need to set the following parameters in the global.ini configuration file of HANA:
datavolume_striping=true
datavolume_striping_size_gb = 15000
See also SAP note#2400005
Be aware of SAP note#2631285
Next steps
Learn about deploying SAP HANA (Large Instances).
SAP HANA (Large Instances) deployment
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources