Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Virtual Network Manager?
Article
2025-03-11
6 contributors
In this article
Azure Virtual Network Manager is a management service that enables you to group, configure, deploy, and manage virtual networks globally across subscriptions. With Virtual Network Manager, you can define network groups to identify and logically segment your virtual networks. Then you can determine the connectivity and security configurations you want and apply them across all the selected virtual networks in network groups at once.
How does Azure Virtual Network Manager work?

During the creation process, you define the scope for what your Azure Virtual Network Manager manages. Your Network Manager only has the delegated access to apply configurations within this scope boundary. Defining a scope can be done directly on a list of subscriptions. However, we recommend you usemanagement groupsto define your scope. Management groups provide hierarchical organization to your subscriptions. After defining the scope, you deploy configuration types includingConnectivityand theSecurityAdmin rulesfor your Virtual Network Manager.
After you deploy the Virtual Network Manager instance, you create anetwork group, which serves as a logical container of networking resources to apply configurations at scale. You can manually select individual virtual networks to be added to your network group, known as static membership. Or you can use Azure Policy to define conditions that govern your group membership dynamically, or dynamic membership. For more information about Azure Policy initiatives, seeAzure Virtual Network Manager and Azure Policy.
Next, you create connectivity and/or security configurations applied to those network groups based on your topology and security needs. Aconnectivity configurationenables you to create a mesh or a hub-and-spoke network topology. Asecurity configurationallows you to define a collection of rules that you can apply to one or more network groups at the global level. Once you create your desired network groups and configurations, you can deploy the configurations to any region of your choosing.
Azure Virtual Network Manager can be deployed and managed through theAzure portal,Azure CLI,Azure PowerShell, orTerraform.
Key benefits
Centrally manage connectivity and security policies globally across regions and subscriptions.
Centrally manage connectivity and security policies globally across regions and subscriptions.
Enable direct connectivity between spokes in a hub-and-spoke configuration without the complexity of managing a mesh network.
Enable direct connectivity between spokes in a hub-and-spoke configuration without the complexity of managing a mesh network.
Highly scalable and highly available service with redundancy and replication across the globe.
Highly scalable and highly available service with redundancy and replication across the globe.
Ability to create network security rules that override network security group rules.
Ability to create network security rules that override network security group rules.
Low latency and high bandwidth between resources in different virtual networks using virtual network peering.
Low latency and high bandwidth between resources in different virtual networks using virtual network peering.
Roll out network changes through a specific region sequence and frequency of your choosing.
Roll out network changes through a specific region sequence and frequency of your choosing.
For current information on the regions where Azure Virtual Network Manager is available, seeAzure Virtual Network Manager regions.
Pricing
For pricing details, seeAzure Virtual Network Manager pricing.
New Azure Virtual Network Manager instances charge solely on the virtual network-based pricing described in the pricing page.
Azure Virtual Network Manager instances created before the release of the virtual network-based pricing continue to charge on the subscription-based pricing described in the pricing page. If you prefer for your Azure Virtual Network Manager instance to instead charge on the virtual network-based pricing, follow these steps to switch its pricing model through Azure Feature Exposure Control (AFEC).
In the Azure Portal, search for "Preview features".
On the "Preview Features" page, ensure the subscription selected is the subscription that contains your Azure Virtual Network Manager instance. Filter the features by "Network manager".
Select the feature named "Network manager billing by virtual networks" and register. The Azure Virtual Network Manager instance in the registered subscription now charges on the virtual network-based pricing.
Note
This virtual network-based pricing isgenerally available. Its enablement mechanism is available through AFEC because the previous subscription-based pricing is not yet retired and for ease of setup.
FAQs
For FAQs, seeAzure Virtual Network Manager FAQs.
Limits
For limits, seeAzure Virtual Network Manager limits.
Service Level Agreement (SLA)
For SLA, seeSLA for Azure Virtual Network Manager
Next steps
Create an Azure Virtual Network Manager instance using the Azure portal.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources