Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Save costs with Azure App Service reserved instances
Article
2025-04-16
7 contributors
In this article
This article explains how you can save with Azure App Service reserved instances for Premium v3 and Isolated v2 instances.
Save with reserved instances
When you commit to an Azure App Service Premium v3 or Isolatec v2 reserved instance you can save money. The reservation discount is applied automatically to the number of running instances that match the reservation scope and attributes. You don't need to assign a reservation to an instance to get the discounts.
Determine the right reserved instance size before you buy
Before you buy a reservation, you should determine the size of the reserved instance that you need. The following sections will help you determine the right reserved instance size.
Use reservation recommendations
You can use reservation recommendations to help determine the reservations you should purchase.
Purchase recommendations and recommended quantities are shown when you purchase a Premium v3 reserved instance in the Azure portal.
Azure Advisor provides purchase recommendations for individual subscriptions.
You can use the APIs to get purchase recommendations for both shared scope and single subscription scope.
For Enterprise Agreement (EA) and Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) customers, purchase recommendations for shared and single subscription scopes are available with theAzure Consumption Insights Power BI content pack.
Analyze your usage information
Analyze your usage information to help determine which reservations you should purchase. Usage data is available in the usage file and APIs. Use them together to determine which reservation to purchase. Check for instances that have high usage on daily basis to determine the quantity of reservations to purchase.
Your usage file shows your charges by billing period and daily usage. For information about downloading your usage file, seeView and download your Azure usage and charges. Then, by using the usage file information, you candetermine what reservation to purchase.
Buy a Premium v3 reserved instance
You can buy a reserved Premium v3 reserved instance in theAzure portal. Pay for the reservationup front or with monthly payments. These requirements apply to buying a Premium v3 reserved instance:
To buy a reservation, you must have owner role or reservation purchaser role on an Azure subscription.
For EA subscriptions, theReserved Instancesoption must be enabled in theAzure portal. Navigate to thePoliciesmenu to change settings.
For the Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program, only the admin agents or sales agents can buy reservations.
To buy an instance:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
SelectAll services>Reservations.
SelectAddto purchase a new reservation and then selectInstance.
Enter required fields. Running Premium v3 reserved instances that match the attributes you select qualify for the reservation discount. The actual number of your Premium v3 reserved instances that get the discount depend on the scope and quantity selected.
If you have an EA agreement, you can use theAdd more optionto quickly add additional instances. The option isn't available for other subscription types.
Single resource group scope— Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected resource group only.
Single subscription scope— Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected subscription.
Shared scope— Applies the reservation discount to matching resources in eligible subscriptions that are in the billing context. For EA customers, the billing context is the enrollment. For individual subscriptions with pay-as-you-go rates, the billing scope is all eligible subscriptions created by the account administrator.
Management group- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resource in the list of subscriptions that are a part of both the management group and billing scope.
Buy an Isolated v2 reserved instance
You can buy a reserved Isolated v2 reserved instance in theAzure portal. Pay for the reservationup front or with monthly payments. These requirements apply to buying a Isolated v2 reserved instance:
You must be in an Owner role for at least one EA subscription or a subscription with a pay-as-you-go rate.
For EA subscriptions, theReserved Instancespolicy option must be enabled in theAzure portal. Navigate to thePoliciesmenu to change settings.
For the Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program, only the admin agents or sales agents can buy reservations.
To buy an instance:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
SelectAll services>Reservations.
SelectAddto purchase a new reservation and then selectInstance.
Enter required fields. Running Isolated v2 reserved instances that match the attributes you select qualify for the reservation discount. The actual number of your Isolated v2 reserved instances that get the discount depend on the scope and quantity selected.
If you have an EA agreement, you can use theAdd more optionto quickly add additional instances. The option isn't available for other subscription types.
Single resource group scope— Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected resource group only.
Single subscription scope— Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected subscription.
Shared scope— Applies the reservation discount to matching resources in eligible subscriptions that are in the billing context. For EA customers, the billing context is the enrollment. For individual subscriptions with pay-as-you-go rates, the billing scope is all eligible subscriptions created by the account administrator.
Management group- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resource in the list of subscriptions that are a part of both the management group and billing scope.
Cancel, exchange, or refund reservations
You can cancel, exchange, or refund reservations with certain limitations. For more information, seeSelf-service exchanges and refunds for Azure Reservations.
Discount application shown in usage data
Your usage data has an effective price of zero for the usage that gets a reservation discount. The usage data shows the reservation discount for each stamp instance in each reservation.
For more information about how reservation discount shows in usage data, seeGet Enterprise Agreement reservation costs and usageif you're an Enterprise Agreement (EA) customer. Otherwise see,Understand Azure reservation usage for your individual subscription with pay-as-you-go rates.
Next steps
To learn more about Azure Reservations, see the following articles:What are Azure Reservations?Understand how an Azure App Service Isolated Stamp reservation discount is appliedUnderstand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment
What are Azure Reservations?
Understand how an Azure App Service Isolated Stamp reservation discount is applied
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources