Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Choose a search data store in Azure
Article
2025-03-20
24 contributors
In this article
This article compares technology choices for search data stores in Azure. A search data store is used to create and store specialized indexes for performing searches on free-form text. The text that is indexed may reside in a separate data store, such as blob storage. An application submits a query to the search data store, and the result is a list of matching documents. For more information about this scenario, seeProcessing free-form text for search.
What are your options when choosing a search data store?
In Azure, all of the following data stores will meet the core requirements for search against free-form text data by providing a search index:
Azure AI Search
Elasticsearch
Azure SQL Database with full text search
Key selection criteria
For search scenarios, begin choosing the appropriate search data store for your needs by answering these questions:
Do you want a managed service rather than managing your own servers?
Do you want a managed service rather than managing your own servers?
Can you specify your index schema at design time? If not, choose an option that supports updateable schemas.
Can you specify your index schema at design time? If not, choose an option that supports updateable schemas.
Do you need an index only for full-text search, or do you also need rapid aggregation of numeric data and other analytics? If you need functionality beyond full-text search, consider options that support additional analytics.
Do you need an index only for full-text search, or do you also need rapid aggregation of numeric data and other analytics? If you need functionality beyond full-text search, consider options that support additional analytics.
Do you need a search index for Log Analytics, with support for log collection, aggregation, and visualizations on indexed data? If so, consider Elasticsearch, which is part of a Log Analytics stack.
Do you need a search index for Log Analytics, with support for log collection, aggregation, and visualizations on indexed data? If so, consider Elasticsearch, which is part of a Log Analytics stack.
Do you need to index data in common document formats such as PDF, Word, PowerPoint, and Excel? If yes, choose an option that provides document indexers.
Do you need to index data in common document formats such as PDF, Word, PowerPoint, and Excel? If yes, choose an option that provides document indexers.
Does your database have specific security needs? If yes, consider the security features listed below.
Does your database have specific security needs? If yes, consider the security features listed below.
Capability matrix
The following tables summarize the key differences in capabilities.
General capabilities
Manageability capabilities
Analytic workload capabilities
Security capabilities
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Zoiner Tejada| CEO and Architect
Next steps
What is AI Search?
Full-Text Search in SQL Server and Azure SQL Database
Elastic Cloud (Elasticsearch Service)
Related resources
Process free-form text for search
Choose a search data store in Azure
Natural language processing technology
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources