Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Compare Microsoft machine learning products and technologies
Article
2025-01-29
13 contributors
In this article
Learn about the machine learning products and technologies from Microsoft. Compare options to help you choose how to most effectively build, deploy, and manage your machine learning solutions.
Cloud-based machine learning products
The following options are available for machine learning in the Azure cloud.
On-premises machine learning product
The following option is available for machine learning on-premises. On-premises servers can also run in a virtual machine (VM) in the cloud.
Development platforms and tools
The following development platforms and tools are available for machine learning.
Azure Machine Learning
Machine Learningis a fully managed cloud service that you can use to train, deploy, and manage machine learning models at scale. It fully supports open-source technologies, so you can use tens of thousands of open-source Python packages, such as TensorFlow, PyTorch, and scikit-learn.
Rich tools, such ascompute instances,Jupyter notebooks, or theAzure Machine Learning for Visual Studio Code (VS Code) extension, are also available. The Machine Learning for VS Code extension is a free extension that allows you to manage your resources and model training workflows and deployments in VS Code. Machine Learning includes features that automate model generation and tuning with ease, efficiency, and accuracy.
Use Python SDK, Jupyter notebooks, R, and the CLI for machine learning at cloud scale. If you want a low-code or no-code option, useDesignerin the studio. Designer helps you easily and quickly build, test, and deploy models by using prebuilt machine learning algorithms. Additionally, you can integrate Machine Learning with Azure DevOps and GitHub Actions for continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) of machine learning models.
Azure AI services
AI servicesis a comprehensive suite of prebuilt APIs that help developers and organizations create intelligent, market-ready applications rapidly. These services provide out-of-the-box and customizable APIs and SDKs that allow your apps to see, hear, speak, understand, and interpret user needs with minimal code. These capabilities make datasets or data science expertise to train models unnecessary. You can add intelligent features to your apps, such as:
Vision:Includes object detection, face recognition, and optical character recognition. For more information, seeAzure AI Vision,Azure AI Face, andAzure AI Document Intelligence.
Speech:Includes speech-to-text, text-to-speech, and speaker recognition capabilities. For more information, seeSpeech service.
Language:Includes translation, sentiment analysis, key phrase extraction, and language understanding. For more information, seeAzure OpenAI Service,Azure AI Translator,Azure AI Immersive Reader,Bot Framework Composer, andAzure AI Language.
Decision-making:Detect unwanted content and make informed decisions. For more information, seeAzure AI Content Safety.
Search and knowledge:Bring AI-powered cloud search and knowledge mining capabilities to your apps. For more information, seeAzure AI Search.
Use AI services to develop apps across devices and platforms. The APIs continuously improve and are easy to set up.
SQL machine learning
SQL machine learningadds statistical analysis, data visualization, and predictive analytics in Python and R for relational data, both on-premises and in the cloud. Current platforms and tools include:
SQL Server Machine Learning Services.
SQL Managed Instance Machine Learning Services.
Machine learning in Azure Synapse Analytics.
Machine Learning extension for Azure Data Studio.
Use SQL machine learning when you need built-in AI and predictive analytics on relational data in SQL.
Azure AI Foundry
Azure AI Foundry is a unified platform that you can use to develop and deploy generative AI applications and Azure AI APIs responsibly. It provides a comprehensive set of AI capabilities, a simplified user interface, and code-first experiences. These features make it a comprehensive platform for building, testing, deploying, and managing intelligent solutions.
Azure AI Foundry helps developers and data scientists efficiently create and deploy generative AI applications by using Azure AI offerings. It emphasizes responsible AI development and embeds principles of fairness, transparency, and accountability. The platform includes tools for bias detection, interpretability, and privacy-preserving machine learning. These tools help ensure that AI models are powerful, trustworthy, and compliant with regulatory requirements.
As part of the Microsoft Azure ecosystem, Azure AI Foundry provides robust tools and services that cater to various AI and machine learning needs, including natural language processing and computer vision. Its integration with other Azure services helps ensure seamless scalability and performance, which makes it an ideal option for enterprises.
TheAzure AI Foundry portalfosters collaboration and innovation by providing features like shared workspaces, version control, and integrated development environments. By integrating popular open-source frameworks and tools, Azure AI Foundry accelerates the development process so that organizations can drive innovation and stay ahead in the competitive AI landscape.
Azure Machine Learning studio
Azure Machine Learning studiois a collaborative, drag-and-drop tool for building, testing, and deploying predictive analytics solutions on your data. It's designed for data scientists, data engineers, and business analysts. Machine Learning studio supports a wide range of machine learning algorithms and tools for data preparation, model training, and evaluation. It also provides a visual interface for connecting datasets and modules on an interactive canvas.
For a comprehensive comparison of Machine Learning studio and theAzure AI Foundry portal, seeAzure AI Foundry portal or Machine Learning studio. The following table summarizes the key differences between them:
Microsoft Fabric
Fabricis an end-to-end, unified analytics platform that brings together all the data and analytics tools that organizations need. It integrates various services and tools to provide a seamless experience for data professionals, including data engineers, data scientists, and business analysts. Fabric provides capabilities for data integration, data engineering, data warehousing, data science, real-time analytics, and business intelligence.
Use Fabric when you need a comprehensive platform to manage your entire data lifecycle from ingestion to insights.
Azure Data Science Virtual Machine
Azure Data Science Virtual Machineis a customized VM environment on the Microsoft Azure cloud. It's available in versions for both Windows and Linux Ubuntu. The environment is specifically for data science tasks and machine learning solution development. It has many popular data science functions, machine learning frameworks, and other tools that are preinstalled and preconfigured so that you can jump-start building intelligent applications for advanced analytics.
Use the Data Science VM when you need to run or host your jobs on a single node or if you need to remotely scale up your processing on a single machine.
Azure Databricks
Azure Databricksis an Apache Spark-based analytics platform that's optimized for the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Azure Databricks is integrated with Azure to provide one-click setup, streamlined workflows, and an interactive workspace that enables collaboration between data scientists, data engineers, and business analysts. Use Python, R, Scala, and SQL code in web-based notebooks to query, visualize, and model data.
Use Azure Databricks when you want to collaborate on building machine learning solutions on Apache Spark.
ML.NET
ML.NETis an open-source, cross-platform machine learning framework. Use ML.NET to build custom machine learning solutions and integrate them into your .NET applications. ML.NET provides various levels of interoperability with popular frameworks like TensorFlow and ONNX for training and scoring machine learning and deep learning models. For resource-intensive tasks like training image classification models, you can use Azure to train your models in the cloud.
Use ML.NET when you want to integrate machine learning solutions into your .NET applications. Choose between theAPIfor a code-first experience andModel Builderor theCLIfor a low-code experience.
AI for Windows apps
UseAI for Windows appsto integrate AI capabilities into Windows applications Use WinML and DirectML capabilities to provide local, real-time AI model evaluation and hardware acceleration. WinML allows developers to integrate trained machine learning models directly into their Windows applications. It facilitates local, real-time evaluation of models and enables powerful AI capabilities without the need for cloud connectivity.
DirectML is a high-performance, hardware-accelerated platform for running machine learning models. It uses DirectX APIs to provide optimized performance across diverse hardware, including GPUs and AI accelerators.
Use AI for Windows apps when you want to use trained machine learning models within your Windows applications.
SynapseML
SynapseML, formerly known as MMLSpark, is an open-source library that simplifies the creation of massively scalable machine learning pipelines. SynapseML provides APIs for various machine learning tasks, such as text analytics, vision, and anomaly detection. SynapseML is built on theApache Sparkdistributed computing framework and shares the same API as the SparkML and MLlib libraries, so you can seamlessly embed SynapseML models into existing Apache Spark workflows.
SynapseML adds many deep learning and data science tools to the Spark ecosystem, including seamless integration ofSpark Machine Learningpipelines withLight Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM),Local Interpretable Model-Agnostic Explanations, andOpenCV. You can use these tools to create powerful predictive models on any Spark cluster, such asAzure DatabricksorAzure Cosmos DB.
SynapseML also provides networking capabilities to the Spark ecosystem. With the HTTP on Spark project, users can embed any web service into their SparkML models. Additionally, SynapseML provides easy-to-use tools for orchestratingAI servicesat scale. For production-grade deployment, the Spark Serving project enables high throughput and submillisecond latency web services that are backed by your Spark cluster.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal authors:
Mahdi Setayesh| Principal Software Engineer
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
AI development products available from Microsoft
Microsoft Learn training in developing AI and machine learning solutions
How Azure Machine Learning works
Related resources
Choose an Azure AI services technology
AI architecture design
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources