Design patterns for microservices
The goal of microservices is to increase the velocity of application releases, by decomposing the application into small autonomous services that can be deployed independently. A microservices architecture also brings some challenges. The design patterns shown here can help mitigate these challenges.

Ambassadorcan be used to offload common client connectivity tasks such as monitoring, logging, routing, and security (such as TLS) in a language agnostic way. Ambassador services are often deployed as a sidecar (see below).
Anti-corruption layerimplements a façade between new and legacy applications, to ensure that the design of a new application is not limited by dependencies on legacy systems.
Backends for Frontendscreates separate backend services for different types of clients, such as desktop and mobile. That way, a single backend service doesn't need to handle the conflicting requirements of various client types. This pattern can help keep each microservice simple, by separating client-specific concerns.
Bulkheadisolates critical resources, such as connection pool, memory, and CPU, for each workload or service. By using bulkheads, a single workload (or service) can't consume all of the resources, starving others. This pattern increases the resiliency of the system by preventing cascading failures caused by one service.
Gateway Aggregationaggregates requests to multiple individual microservices into a single request, reducing chattiness between consumers and services.
Gateway Offloadingenables each microservice to offload shared service functionality, such as the use of SSL certificates, to an API gateway.
Gateway Routingroutes requests to multiple microservices using a single endpoint, so that consumers don't need to manage many separate endpoints.
Messaging Bridgeintegrates disparate systems built with different messaging infrastructures.
Sidecardeploys helper components of an application as a separate container or process to provide isolation and encapsulation.
Strangler Figsupports incremental refactoring of an application, by gradually replacing specific pieces of functionality with new services.
For the complete catalog of cloud design patterns on the Azure Architecture Center, seeCloud Design Patterns.
Next steps
Training: Decompose a monolithic application into a microservices architecture
What are microservices?
Why use a microservices approach to building applications
Microservices architecture
Related resources
Microservice architecture style
Design a microservices architecture
Using domain analysis to model microservices
Data considerations for microservices