Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Govern overview
Article
2024-04-05
18 contributors
In this article
The CAF Govern methodology provides a structured approach for establishing and optimizing cloud governance in Azure. The guidance is relevant for organizations across any industry. It covers essential categories of cloud governance, such as regulatory compliance, security, operations, cost, data, resource management, and artificial intelligence (AI).
Cloud governance is how you control cloud use across your organization. Cloud governance sets up guardrails that regulate cloud interactions. These guardrails are a framework of policies, procedures, and tools you use to establish control. Policies define acceptable and unacceptable cloud activity, and the procedures and tools you use ensure all cloud usage aligns with those policies. Successful cloud governance prevents all unauthorized or unmanaged cloud usage.

Why govern the cloud?
Cloud governance is foundational to defining and sustaining the productive use of the cloud. Effective cloud governance regulates all cloud use, mitigates risks, and streamlines cloud interactions across the organization. It aligns cloud use with the broader cloud strategy and helps you reach business goals with fewer setbacks. Without cloud governance, your organization might encounter risks that cloud governance could prevent.
How to govern the cloud?
Cloud governance is a continuous process. It requires ongoing monitoring, evaluation, and adjustments to adapt to evolving technologies, risks, and compliance requirements. The CAF Govern methodology divides cloud governance into five steps. Complete all five steps to establish cloud governance and regularly iterate on steps 2-5 to maintain cloud governance over time:
Build a governance team: Select a team of individuals to be responsible for cloud governance. The cloud governance team defines and maintains cloud governance policies while reporting on the overall progress of cloud governance.
Build a governance team: Select a team of individuals to be responsible for cloud governance. The cloud governance team defines and maintains cloud governance policies while reporting on the overall progress of cloud governance.
Assess cloud risks: Evaluate and prioritize potential risks associated with the use of the cloud. The risk assessment should identify risks unique to your organization. Consider all categories of risk, such as regulatory compliance, security, operations, cost, data, resource management, and AI risks. Use Azure tools to helpassess cloud risks.
Assess cloud risks: Evaluate and prioritize potential risks associated with the use of the cloud. The risk assessment should identify risks unique to your organization. Consider all categories of risk, such as regulatory compliance, security, operations, cost, data, resource management, and AI risks. Use Azure tools to helpassess cloud risks.
Document cloud governance policies: Define the cloud governance policies that dictate the acceptable use of the cloud. These cloud governance policies set out the rules and guidelines for cloud usage to minimize the identified risks.
Document cloud governance policies: Define the cloud governance policies that dictate the acceptable use of the cloud. These cloud governance policies set out the rules and guidelines for cloud usage to minimize the identified risks.
Enforce cloud governance policies: Enforce compliance with the cloud governance policies using automated tools or manual procedures. The goal is to ensure that the use of cloud services is in line with the established cloud governance policies. Use Azure tools to helpenforce cloud governance policies.
Enforce cloud governance policies: Enforce compliance with the cloud governance policies using automated tools or manual procedures. The goal is to ensure that the use of cloud services is in line with the established cloud governance policies. Use Azure tools to helpenforce cloud governance policies.
Monitor cloud governance: Monitor cloud use and teams responsible for governance to ensure they're compliant with the cloud governance policies. Use Azure tools to helpmonitor cloud governanceandset up alerts for noncompliance.
Monitor cloud governance: Monitor cloud use and teams responsible for governance to ensure they're compliant with the cloud governance policies. Use Azure tools to helpmonitor cloud governanceandset up alerts for noncompliance.
Cloud governance checklist
Use the cloud governance checklist to see all the tasks for each cloud governance step. Use the links to quickly navigate to the guidance you need.
Next step
Build a cloud governance team
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources