Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Resiliency in Azure DNS Private Resolver
Article
2023-11-30
3 contributors
In this article
This article describes reliability support in Azure DNS Private Resolver, and covers both regional resiliency withavailability zonesand cross-region resiliency with disaster recovery.
Note
Azure DNS Private Resolver supports availability zones without any further configuration! When the service is provisioned, it's deployed across the different availability zones, and will provide zone resiliency out of the box.
For a comprehensive overview of reliability in Azure, seeAzure reliability.
Azure DNS Private Resolver
Azure DNS Private Resolverenables you to query Azure DNS private zones from an on-premises environment, and vice versa, without deploying VM based DNS servers. You no longer need to provision IaaS based solutions on your virtual networks to resolve names registered on Azure private DNS zones. You can configure conditional forwarding of domains back to on-premises, multicloud, and public DNS servers.
Availability zones
For more information about availability zones, seeRegions and availability zones.
Prerequisites
For a list of regions that support availability zones, seeAzure regions with availability zones. If your Azure DNS Private Resolver is located in one of the regions listed, you don't need to take any other action beyond provisioning the service.
To enable AZ support for Azure DNS Private Resolver, you do not need to take further steps beyond provisioning the service. Just create the private resolver in the region with AZ support, and it will be available across all AZs.
For detailed steps on how to provision the service, seeCreate an Azure private DNS Resolver using the Azure portal.
Fault tolerance
During a zone-wide outage, no action is required during zone recovery. The service will self-heal and rebalance to take advantage of the healthy zone automatically. The service is provisioned across all the AZs.
Disaster recovery and cross-region failover
For cross-region failover in Azure DNS Private Resolver, seeSet up DNS failover using private resolvers.
In the event of a regional outage, use the same design as that described inSet up DNS failover using private resolvers. When you configure this failover design, you can keep resolving names using the other active regions, and also increase the resiliency of your workloads.
All instances of Azure DNS Private Resolver run as Active-Active within the same region.
The service health is onboarded toAzure Resource Health, so you'll be able to check for health notifications when you subscribe to them. For more information, seeCreate activity log alerts on service notifications using the Azure portal.
Also see theSLA for Azure DNS.
Next steps
Resiliency in Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources