Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure HDInsight?
Article
2025-02-24
10 contributors
In this article
Azure HDInsight is a managed, full-spectrum, open-source analytics service in the cloud for enterprises. With HDInsight, you can use open-source frameworks such as, Apache Spark, Apache Hive, LLAP, Apache Kafka, Hadoop and more, in your Azure environment.
What is HDInsight and the Hadoop technology stack?
Azure HDInsight is a managed cluster platform that makes it easy to run big data frameworks like Apache Spark, Apache Hive, LLAP, Apache Kafka, Apache Hadoop, and others in your Azure environment. It's designed to handle large volumes of data with high speed and efficiency.
Why should I use Azure HDInsight?
What is big data?
Big data is collected in escalating volumes, at higher velocities, and in a greater variety of formats than ever before. It can be historical (meaning stored) or real time (meaning streamed from the source). SeeScenarios for using HDInsightto learn about the most common use cases for big data.
Cluster types in HDInsight
HDInsight includes specific cluster types and cluster customization capabilities, such as the capability to add components, utilities, and languages. HDInsight offers the following cluster types:
Scenarios for using HDInsight
Azure HDInsight can be used for various scenarios inbig dataprocessing. It can be historical data (data that is already collected and stored) or real-time data (data that is directly streamed from the source). The scenarios for processing such data can be summarized in the following categories:
Batch processing (ETL)
Extract, transform, and load (ETL) is a process where unstructured or structured data is extracted from heterogeneous data sources. It's then transformed into a structured format and loaded into a data store. You can use the transformed data for data science or data warehousing.
Data warehousing
You can use HDInsight to perform interactive queries at petabyte scales over structured or unstructured data in any format. You can also build models connecting them to BI tools.

Internet of Things (IoT)
You can use HDInsight to process streaming data that is received in real time from different kinds of devices. For more information,read this blog post from Azure that announces the public preview of Apache Kafka on HDInsight with Azure Managed disks.

Hybrid
You can use HDInsight to extend your existing on-premisesbig datainfrastructure to Azure to apply the advanced analytics capabilities of the cloud.

Open-source components in HDInsight
Azure HDInsight enables you to create clusters with open-source frameworks such as Spark, Hive, LLAP, Kafka, Hadoop and HBase. By default, these clusters include various open-source components such as Apache Ambari, Avro, Apache Hive 3, HCatalog, Apache Hadoop MapReduce, Apache Hadoop YARN, Apache Phoenix, Apache Pig, Apache Sqoop, Apache Tez, Apache Oozie, and Apache ZooKeeper.
Programming languages in HDInsight
HDInsight clusters, including Spark, HBase, Kafka, Hadoop, and others, support many programming languages. Some programming languages aren't installed by default. For libraries, modules, or packages that aren't installed by default, use a script action to install the component.
Java
Python
.NET
Go
Clojure
Jython (Python for Java)
Scala
Pig Latin for Pig jobs
HiveQL for Hive jobs and SparkSQL
Development tools for HDInsight
You can use HDInsight development tools, including IntelliJ, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, and Visual Studio, to author and submit HDInsight data query and job with seamless integration with Azure.
Azure toolkit for IntelliJ 10
Azure toolkit for Eclipse 6
Azure HDInsight tools for VS Code 13
Azure data lake tools for Visual Studio 9
Business intelligence on HDInsight
Familiar business intelligence (BI) tools retrieve, analyze, and report data that is integrated with HDInsight by using either the Power Query add-in or the Microsoft Hive ODBC Driver:
Apache Spark BI using data visualization tools with Azure HDInsight
Apache Spark BI using data visualization tools with Azure HDInsight
Visualize Apache Hive data with Microsoft Power BI in Azure HDInsight
Visualize Apache Hive data with Microsoft Power BI in Azure HDInsight
Visualize Interactive Query Hive data with Power BI in Azure HDInsight
Visualize Interactive Query Hive data with Power BI in Azure HDInsight
Connect Excel to Apache Hadoop with Power Query(requires Windows)
Connect Excel to Apache Hadoop with Power Query(requires Windows)
Connect Excel to Apache Hadoop with the Microsoft Hive ODBC Driver(requires Windows)
Connect Excel to Apache Hadoop with the Microsoft Hive ODBC Driver(requires Windows)
In-region data residency
Spark, Hadoop, and LLAP don't store customer data, so these services automatically satisfy in-region data residency requirements specified in theAzure global infrastructure site.
Kafka and HBase do store customer data. This data is automatically stored by Kafka and HBase in a single region, so this service satisfies in-region data residency requirements specified in theAzure global infrastructure site.
Familiar business intelligence (BI) tools retrieve, analyze, and report data that is integrated with HDInsight by using either the Power Query add-in or the Microsoft Hive ODBC Driver.
Next steps
Create Apache Hadoop cluster in HDInsight
Create Apache Spark cluster - Portal
Enterprise security in Azure HDInsight
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources