Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Resource Graph?
Article
2024-06-18
12 contributors
In this article
Azure Resource Graph is an Azure service designed to extend Azure Resource Management by providing efficient and performant resource exploration. Resource Graph has the ability to query at scale across a given set of subscriptions so that you can effectively govern your environment. These queries provide the following abilities:
Query resources with complex filtering, grouping, and sorting by resource properties.
Explore resources iteratively based on governance requirements.
Assess the effect of applying policies in a vast cloud environment.
Query changes made to resource properties.
In this documentation, you review each feature in detail.
Note
Azure Resource Graph powers Azure portal's search bar, the new browseAll resourcesexperience,
and Azure Policy'sChange historyvisual diff. It's designed to help customers manage large-scale environments.
Note
This service supportsAzure Lighthouse, which lets service providers sign in to their own tenant to manage subscriptions and resource groups that customers have delegated.
How Resource Graph complements Azure Resource Manager
Azure Resource Manager currently supports queries over basic resource fields, specifically:
Resource name
ID
Type
Resource Group
Subscription
Location
Azure Resource Manager also provides
facilities for calling individual resource providers for detailed properties one resource at a time.
With Azure Resource Graph, you can access these properties the resource providers return without
needing to make individual calls to each resource provider. For a list of supported resource types,
review thetable and resource type reference. An
alternative way to see supported resource types is through theAzure Resource Graph Explorer Schema browser.
With Azure Resource Graph, you can:
Access the properties returned by resource providers without needing to make individual calls to
each resource provider.
View the last 14 days of resource configuration changes to see which properties changed and
when.
Note
As apreviewfeature, sometypeobjects have additional non-Resource Manager properties
available. For more information, seeExtended properties.
type
How Resource Graph is kept current
When an Azure resource is updated, Azure Resource Manager notifies Azure Resource Graph about the change. Azure Resource Graph then updates its database. Azure Resource Graph also does a regularfull scan. This scan ensures that Azure Resource Graph data is current if there are missed notifications. Or when a resource is updated outside of Azure Resource Manager.
Note
Resource Graph uses aGETto the latest non-preview application programming interface (API) of each resource provider to gather
properties and values. As a result, the property expected may not be available. In some cases, the
API version used has been overridden to provide more current or widely used properties in the
results. See theShow API version for each resource typesample for a complete list in your environment.
GET
The query language
Now that you have a better understanding of what Azure Resource Graph is, let's dive into how to
construct queries.
It's important to understand that Azure Resource Graph's query language is based on theKusto Query Language (KQL)used by Azure Data Explorer.
First, for details on operations and functions that can be used with Azure Resource Graph, seeResource Graph query language. To browse resources, seeexplore resources.
Permissions in Azure Resource Graph
To use Resource Graph, you must have appropriate rights inAzure role-based access control (Azure
RBAC)with at leastreadaccess to the resources you
want to query. No results are returned if you don't have at leastreadpermissions to the Azure
object or object group.
read
read
Note
Resource Graph uses the subscriptions available to a principal during login. To see resources of a
new subscription added during an active session, the principal must refresh the context. This
action happens automatically when logging out and back in.
Azure CLI and Azure PowerShell use subscriptions that the user has access to. When you use a REST
API, the subscription list is provided by the user. If the user has access to any of the
subscriptions in the list, the query results are returned for the subscriptions the user has access
to. This behavior is the same as when callingResource Groups - Listbecause you get resource groups that you can access, without any indication that the result might be
partial. If there are no subscriptions in the subscription list that the user has appropriate rights
to, the response is a403(Forbidden).
Note
In thepreviewREST API version2020-04-01-preview, the subscription list may be omitted.
When both thesubscriptionsandmanagementGroupIdproperties aren't defined in the request,
thescopeis set to the tenant. For more information, seeScope of the query.
2020-04-01-preview
subscriptions
managementGroupId
Throttling
As a free service, queries to Resource Graph are throttled to provide the best experience and
response time for all customers. If your organization wants to use the Resource Graph API for
large-scale and frequent queries, use portalFeedbackfrom theResource Graph portal page.
Provide your business case and select theMicrosoft can email you about your feedbackcheckbox in
order for the team to contact you.
Resource Graph throttles queries at the user level. The service response contains the following HTTP
headers:
x-ms-user-quota-remaining(int): The remaining resource quota for the user. This value maps to
query count.
x-ms-user-quota-remaining
x-ms-user-quota-resets-after(hh:mm:ss): The time duration until a user's quota consumption is
reset
x-ms-user-quota-resets-after
For more information, seeGuidance for throttled requests.
Running your first query
Azure Resource Graph Explorer, part of Azure portal, enables running Resource Graph queries directly in the Azure portal. Pin the results as dynamic charts to provide real-time dynamic information to your portal workflow. For more information, go toFirst query with Azure Resource Graph Explorer.
Resource Graph also supports Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, and REST API. The query is structured the same for each language. Learn how to enable Resource Graph with:
Azure CLI
Azure PowerShell
REST API
Alerts integration with Log Analytics
Note
Azure Resource Graph alerts integration with Log Analytics is in public preview.
You can create alert rules by using either Azure Resources Graph queries or integrating Log Analytics with Azure Resources Graph queries through Azure Monitor. Both methods can be used to create alerts for Azure resources. For examples, go toQuickstart: Create alerts with Azure Resource Graph and Log Analytics.
Run queries with Power BI connector
The Azure Resource Graph Power BI connector runs queries at the tenant level but you can change the scope to subscription or management group. The Power BI connector has an optional setting to return all records if your query results have more than 1,000 records. For more information, go toQuickstart: Run queries with the Azure Resource Graph Power BI connector.
Next steps
Learn more about thequery language.
See the language in use inStarter queries.
See advanced uses inAdvanced queries.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources