Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Automation in Microsoft Sentinel: Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR)
Article
2025-02-13
3 contributors
Applies to: Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal, Microsoft Sentinel in the Azure portal
In this article
Security information and event management (SIEM) and security operations center (SOC) teams are typically inundated with security alerts and incidents on a regular basis, at volumes so large that available personnel are overwhelmed. This results all too often in situations where many alerts are ignored and many incidents aren't investigated, leaving the organization vulnerable to attacks that go unnoticed.
Microsoft Sentinel, in addition to being a SIEM system, is also a platform for security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR). One of its primary purposes is to automate any recurring and predictable enrichment, response, and remediation tasks that are the responsibility of your security operations center and personnel (SOC/SecOps), freeing up time and resources for more in-depth investigation of, and hunting for, advanced threats.
This article describes Microsoft Sentinel's SOAR capabilities, and shows how using automation rules and playbooks in response to security threats increases your SOC's effectiveness and saves you time and resources.
Important
Microsoft Sentinel is generally available within Microsoft's unified security operations platform in the Microsoft Defender portal, including for customers without Microsoft Defender XDR or an E5 license. For more information, seeMicrosoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal.
Automation rules
Microsoft Sentinel uses automation rules to allow users to manage incident handling automation from a central location. Use automation rules to:
Assign more advanced automation to incidents and alerts, usingplaybooks
Automatically tag, assign, or close incidents without a playbook
Automate responses for multipleanalytics rulesat once
Create lists of tasks for your analysts to perform when triaging, investigating, and remediating incidents
Control the order of actions that are executed
We recommend that you apply automation rules when incidents are created or updated to further streamline the automation and simplify complex workflows for your incident orchestration processes.
For more information, seeAutomate threat response in Microsoft Sentinel with automation rules.
Playbooks
A playbook is a collection of response and remediation actions and logic that can be run from Microsoft Sentinel as a routine. A playbook can:
Help automate and orchestrate your threat response
Integrate with other systems, both internal and external
Be configured to run automatically in response to specific alerts or incidents, or run manually on-demand, such as in response to new alerts
In Microsoft Sentinel, playbooks are based on workflows built inAzure Logic Apps, a cloud service that helps you schedule, automate, and orchestrate tasks and workflows across systems throughout the enterprise. This means that playbooks can take advantage of all the power and customizability of Logic Apps' integration and orchestration capabilities and easy-to-use design tools, and the scalability, reliability, and service level of a Tier 1 Azure service.
For more information, seeAutomate threat response with playbooks in Microsoft Sentinel.
Automation in the Microsoft Defender portal
After onboarding your Microsoft Sentinel workspace to the Defender portal, note the following differences in the way automation functions in your workspace:
After onboarding your workspace, theUpdated byfield has anew set of supported values, which no longer includeMicrosoft 365 Defender. In existing automation rules,Microsoft 365 Defenderis replaced by a value ofOtherafter onboarding your workspace.
If multiple changes are made to the same incident in a 5-10 minute period, a single update is sent to Microsoft Sentinel, with only the most recent change.For more information, seeIncident update trigger.
Run a playbook manually on an alert
Run a playbook manually on an entity
Related content
Automate threat response in Microsoft Sentinel with automation rules
Automate threat response with playbooks in Microsoft Sentinel
Create and use Microsoft Sentinel automation rules to manage response
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources