Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Active Directory B2C service limits and restrictions
Article
2025-04-02
10 contributors
In this article
Before you begin, use theChoose a policy typeselector at the top of this page to choose the type of policy you’re setting up. Azure Active Directory B2C offers two methods to define how users interact with your applications: through predefineduser flowsor through fully configurablecustom policies. The steps required in this article are different for each method.
This article outlines the usage constraints and other service limits for the Azure Active Directory B2C (Azure AD B2C) service. These limits are in place to protect by effectively managing threats and ensuring a high level of service quality.
Note
To increase any of the service limits mentioned in this article, contactSupport.
User/consumption related limits
The number of users able to authenticate through an Azure AD B2C tenant is gated through request limits. The following table illustrates the request limits for your Azure AD B2C tenant.
Endpoint request usage
Azure AD B2C is compliant withOAuth 2.0,OpenID Connect (OIDC), andSAMLprotocols. It provides user authentication and single sign-on (SSO) functionality, with the endpoints listed in the following table.
The frequency of requests made to Azure AD B2C endpoints determines the overall token issuance capability. Azure AD B2C exposes endpoints, which consume a different number of requests. Review theAuthentication Protocolsarticle for more information on which endpoints are consumed by your application.
1The type ofUser Flowdetermines the total number of requests consumed when using these endpoints.
1The configuration of yourCustom Policydetermines the total number of requests consumed when using these endpoints.
Token issuance rate
Each type of User Flow provides a unique user experience and will consume a different number of requests.
The token issuance rate of a User Flow is dependent on the number of requests consumed by both the static and dynamic endpoints. The below table shows the number of requests consumed at a dynamic endpoint for each User Flow.
When you add more features to a User Flow, such as multifactor authentication, more requests are consumed. The below table shows how many additional requests are consumed when a user interacts with one of these features.
To obtain the token issuance rate per second for your User Flow:
Use the tables above to add the total number of requests consumed at the dynamic endpoint.
Add the number of requests expected at the static endpoints based on your application type.
Use the formula below to calculate the token issuance rate per second.
Tokens/sec = 200/requests-consumed
Tokens/sec = 200/requests-consumed
The token issuance rate of a Custom Policy is dependent on the number of requests consumed by the static and dynamic endpoints. The below table shows the number of requests consumed at a dynamic endpoint for theAzure AD B2C starter packs.
To obtain the token issuance rate per second for a particular user journey:
Use the table above to find the number of requests consumed for your user journey.
Add the number of requests expected at the static endpoints based on your application type.
Use the formula below to calculate the token issuance rate per second.
Tokens/sec = 200/requests-consumed
Tokens/sec = 200/requests-consumed
Calculate the token issuance rate of your Custom Policy
You can create your own Custom Policy to provide a unique authentication experience for your application. The number of requests consumed at the dynamic endpoint depends on which features a user traverses through your Custom Policy. The below table shows how many requests are consumed for each feature in a Custom Policy.
To obtain the token issuance rate per second for your Custom Policy:
Use the table above to calculate the total number of requests consumed at the dynamic endpoint.
Add the number of requests expected at the static endpoints based on your application type.
Use the formula below to calculate the token issuance rate per second.
Tokens/sec = 200/requests-consumed
Tokens/sec = 200/requests-consumed
Best practices
You can optimize the token issuance rate by considering the following configuration options:
Increasing access and refreshtoken lifetimes.
Increasing the Azure AD B2Cweb session lifetime.
EnablingKeep Me Signed In.
Caching theOpenId Connect metadatadocuments at your APIs.
Enforcing conditional MFA usingConditional Access.
Azure AD B2C configuration limits
The following table lists the administrative configuration limits in the Azure AD B2C service.
1See alsoMicrosoft Entra service limits and restrictions.
Region specific service limits
As a protection for our customers, Microsoft places some restrictions on telephony verification for certain region codes. The following table lists the region codes and their corresponding limits.
Next steps
Learn aboutMicrosoft Graph's throttling guidance
Learn about thevalidation differences for Azure AD B2C applications
Learn aboutResilience through developer best practices
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources