Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Configure NSX network components using Azure VMware Solution
Article
2024-06-12
5 contributors
In this article
An Azure VMware Solution private cloud comes with NSX by default. The private cloud comes pre-provisioned with an NSX Tier-0 gateway inActive/Activemode and a default NSX Tier-1 gateway in Active/Standby mode.  These gateways let you connect the segments (logical switches) and provide East-West and North-South connectivity.
After deploying Azure VMware Solution, you can configure the necessary NSX objects from the Azure portal.  It presents a simplified view of NSX operations a VMware administrator needs daily and is targeted at users not familiar with NSX Manager.
You have four options to configure NSX components in the Azure VMware Solution console:
Segments- Create segments that display in NSX Manager and vCenter Server. For more information, seeAdd an NSX segment using the Azure portal.
Segments- Create segments that display in NSX Manager and vCenter Server. For more information, seeAdd an NSX segment using the Azure portal.
DHCP- Create a DHCP server or DHCP relay if you plan to use DHCP.  For more information, seeUse the Azure portal to create a DHCP server or relay.
DHCP- Create a DHCP server or DHCP relay if you plan to use DHCP.  For more information, seeUse the Azure portal to create a DHCP server or relay.
Port mirroring– Create port mirroring to help troubleshoot network issues. For more information, seeConfigure port mirroring in the Azure portal.
Port mirroring– Create port mirroring to help troubleshoot network issues. For more information, seeConfigure port mirroring in the Azure portal.
DNS– Create a DNS forwarder to send DNS requests to a designated DNS server for resolution.  For more information, seeConfigure a DNS forwarder in the Azure portal.
DNS– Create a DNS forwarder to send DNS requests to a designated DNS server for resolution.  For more information, seeConfigure a DNS forwarder in the Azure portal.
Important
You'll still have access to the NSX Manager console, where you can use the advanced settings mentioned and other NSX features.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources