Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
AI architecture design
Article
2025-02-03
16 contributors
In this article
AI is a technology that enables machines to imitate intelligent human behavior. Machines can use AI to:
Analyze data to create images and videos.
Analyze and synthesize speech.
Verbally interact in natural ways.
Make predictions and generate new data.
You can incorporate AI into applications to perform functions or make decisions that traditional logic or processing can't handle effectively. As an architect that designs solutions, it's important to understand the AI and machine learning landscape and how you can integrate Azure solutions into your workload design.
Get started
Azure Architecture Center provides example architectures, architecture guides, architectural baselines, and ideas that you can apply to your scenario. Workloads that involve AI and machine learning components should follow the Azure Well-Architected FrameworkAI workloadsguidance. This guidance includes principles and design guides that influence the AI and machine learning workload across the five architecture pillars. You should implement those recommendations in the scenarios and content in the Azure Architecture Center.
AI concepts
AI concepts encompass a wide range of technologies and methodologies that enable machines to perform tasks that typically require human intelligence. The following sections provide an overview of key AI concepts.
Algorithms
Algorithmsormachine learning algorithmsare pieces of code that help people explore, analyze, and find meaning in complex datasets. Each algorithm is a finite set of unambiguous step-by-step instructions that a machine can follow to achieve a specific goal. The goal of a machine learning model is to establish or discover patterns that humans can use to make predictions or categorize information. An algorithm might describe how to determine whether a pet is a cat, dog, fish, bird, or lizard. Another far more complicated algorithm might describe how to identify a written or spoken language, analyze its words, translate them into a different language, and then check the translation for accuracy.
Choose an algorithm family that best suits your task. Evaluate the various algorithms within the family to find the appropriate fit for your workload. For more information, seeWhat are machine learning algorithms?.
Machine learning
Machine learningis an AI technique that uses algorithms to create predictive models. These algorithms parse data fields and "learn" from the patterns within data to generate models. The models can then make informed predictions or decisions based on new data.
The predictive models are validated against known data, measured by performance metrics for specific business scenarios, and then adjusted as needed. This process of learning and validation is calledtraining. Through periodic retraining, machine learning models improve over time.
In your workload design, you might use machine learning if your scenario includes past observations that you can reliably use to predict future situations. These observations can be universal truths, such as computer vision that detects one form of animal from another. Or these observations can be specific to your situation, such as computer vision that detects a potential assembly mistake on your assembly lines based on past warranty claim data.
For more information, seeWhat is machine learning?.
Deep learning
Deep learningis a type of machine learning that can learn through its own data processing. Like machine learning, it also uses algorithms to analyze data. But it analyzes data through artificial neural networks that contain many inputs, outputs, and layers of processing. Each layer can process the data in a different way. The output of one layer becomes the input for the next. This process enables deep learning to create more complex models than traditional machine learning.
Deep learning requires a large investment to generate highly customized or exploratory models. You might consider other solutions in this article before you add deep learning to your workload.
For more information, seeWhat is deep learning?.
Generative AI
Generative AItrains models to generate original content based on many forms of content, such as natural language, computer vision, audio, or image input. With generative AI, you can describe a desired output in everyday language, and the model can respond by creating appropriate text, image, and code. Examples of generative AI applications include Microsoft Copilot and Azure OpenAI Service.
Copilotis primarily a user interface that helps you write code, documents, and other text-based content. It's based on popular OpenAI models and is integrated into a wide range of Microsoft applications and user experiences.
Copilotis primarily a user interface that helps you write code, documents, and other text-based content. It's based on popular OpenAI models and is integrated into a wide range of Microsoft applications and user experiences.
Azure OpenAIis a development platform as a service that provides access to OpenAI's powerful language models, such as o1-preview, o1-mini, GPT-4o, GPT-4o mini, GPT-4 Turbo with Vision, GPT-4, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and the Embeddings model series. You can adapt these models to your specific tasks, such as:Content generation.Content summarization.Image understanding.Semantic search.Natural language to code translation.
Azure OpenAIis a development platform as a service that provides access to OpenAI's powerful language models, such as o1-preview, o1-mini, GPT-4o, GPT-4o mini, GPT-4 Turbo with Vision, GPT-4, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and the Embeddings model series. You can adapt these models to your specific tasks, such as:
Content generation.
Content summarization.
Image understanding.
Semantic search.
Natural language to code translation.
Language models
Language modelsare a subset of generative AI that focus on natural language processing tasks, such as text generation and sentiment analysis. These models represent natural language based on the probability of words or sequences of words occurring in a given context.
Conventional language models are used in supervised settings for research purposes where the models are trained on well-labeled text datasets for specific tasks. Pretrained language models offer an accessible way to get started with AI. They're more widely used in recent years. These models are trained on large-scale text collections from the internet via deep learning neural networks. You can fine-tune them on smaller datasets for specific tasks.
The number of parameters, or weights, determine the size of a language model. Parameters influence how the model processes input data and generates output. During training, the model adjusts the weights to minimize the difference between its predictions and the actual data. This process is how the model learns parameters. The more parameters a model has, the more complex and expressive it is. But it's also more computationally expensive to train and use.
In general, small language models generally have fewer than 10 billion parameters, and large language models have more than 10 billion parameters. For example, the Microsoft Phi-3 model family has three versions:
Mini, 3.8 billion parameters
Small, 7 billion parameters
Medium, 14 billion parameters
For more information, seeLanguage model catalog.
Copilots
The availability of language models led to the emergence of new ways to interact with applications and systems through digital copilots and connected, domain-specific agents.Copilotsare generative AI assistants that integrate into applications, often as chat interfaces. They provide contextualized support for common tasks in those applications.
Microsoft Copilotintegrates with a wide range of Microsoft applications and user experiences. It's based on an open architecture where non-Microsoft developers can create their own plug-ins to extend or customize the user experience with Copilot. Partner developers can also create their own copilots by using the same open architecture.
For more information, see the following resources:
Adopt, extend, and build Copilot experiences across the Microsoft Cloud
Copilot Studio
Azure AI Foundry
Retrieval Augmented Generation
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)is an architecture pattern that augments the capabilities of a large language model (LLM), like ChatGPT, that's trained only on public data. You can use this pattern to add a retrieval system that provides relevant grounding data in the context with the user request. An information retrieval system provides control over grounding data that a language model uses when it formulates a response. RAG architecture helps you scope generative AI to content that's sourced from vectorized documents, images, and other data formats. RAG isn't limited to vector search storage. You can use any data store technology.
For more information, seeDesign and develop a RAG solutionandChoose an Azure service for vector search.
Azure AI services
WithAzure AI services, developers and organizations can use ready-made, prebuilt, and customizable APIs and models to create intelligent, market-ready, and responsible applications. Use cases include natural language processing for conversations, search, monitoring, translation, speech, vision, and decision-making.
For more information, see the following resources:
Choose an Azure AI services technology
Azure AI services documentation
Choose a natural language processing technology in Azure
AI language models
LLMs, such as the OpenAI GPT models, are powerful tools that can generate natural language across various domains and tasks. To choose a model, consider factors such as data privacy, ethical use, accuracy, and bias.
Phi open modelsare small, less compute-intensive models for generative AI solutions. A small language model might be more efficient, interpretable, and explainable than an LLM.
When you design a workload, you can use language models as a hosted solution behind a metered API. Alternatively, for many small language models, you can host language models in-process or at least on the same compute as the consumer. When you use language models in your solution, consider your choice of language model and its available hosting options to help ensure an optimized solution for your use case.
AI development platforms and tools
The following AI development platforms and tools can help you build, deploy, and manage machine learning and AI models.
Azure Machine Learning
Azure Machine Learning is a machine learning service that you can use to build and deploy models. Machine Learning offers web interfaces and SDKs for you to train and deploy your machine learning models and pipelines at scale. Use these capabilities with open-source Python frameworks, such as PyTorch, TensorFlow, and scikit-learn.
For more information, see the following resources:
Compare Microsoft machine learning products and technologies
Machine Learning documentation
What is Machine Learning?
Azure OpenAI chat baseline architecture in an Azure landing zone
Azure OpenAI chat baseline architecture in an Azure landing zone
Batch scoring of Spark machine learning models on Azure Databricks
Batch scoring of Spark machine learning models on Azure Databricks
Baseline OpenAI end-to-end chat reference architectureis a reference architecture that describes how to build an end-to-end chat architecture by using OpenAI's GPT models.The diagram shows the Azure App Service baseline architecture with a private endpoint that connects to a managed online endpoint in a Machine Learning managed virtual network. The managed online endpoint is in front of a Machine Learning compute cluster. The diagram shows the Machine Learning workspace with a dotted line that points to the compute cluster. This arrow represents that the implementable flow is deployed to the compute cluster. The managed virtual network uses managed private endpoints that provide private connectivity to resources that the implementable flow requires, such as Azure Container Registry and Azure Storage. The diagram shows user-defined private endpoints that provide private connectivity to Azure OpenAI Service and Azure AI Search.
Baseline OpenAI end-to-end chat reference architectureis a reference architecture that describes how to build an end-to-end chat architecture by using OpenAI's GPT models.

The diagram shows the Azure App Service baseline architecture with a private endpoint that connects to a managed online endpoint in a Machine Learning managed virtual network. The managed online endpoint is in front of a Machine Learning compute cluster. The diagram shows the Machine Learning workspace with a dotted line that points to the compute cluster. This arrow represents that the implementable flow is deployed to the compute cluster. The managed virtual network uses managed private endpoints that provide private connectivity to resources that the implementable flow requires, such as Azure Container Registry and Azure Storage. The diagram shows user-defined private endpoints that provide private connectivity to Azure OpenAI Service and Azure AI Search.

Automated machine learning
Automated machine learning (AutoML)is the process of automating the time-consuming, iterative tasks of machine learning model development. Data scientists, analysts, and developers can use AutoML to build machine learning models that have high scale, efficiency, and productivity while sustaining model quality.
For more information, see the following resources:
What is AutoML?
Tutorial: Train a classification model with AutoML in Machine Learning studio
Configure AutoML experiments in Python
Use the CLI extension for Machine Learning
MLflow
Machine Learning workspaces are MLflow-compatible, which means that you can use a Machine Learning workspace the same way that you use an MLflow server. This compatibility provides the following advantages:
Machine Learning doesn't host MLflow server instances but can use the MLflow APIs directly.
You can use a Machine Learning workspace as your tracking server for any MLflow code, whether or not it runs in Machine Learning. You need to configure MLflow to point to the workspace where the tracking should occur.
You can run training routines that use MLflow in Machine Learning without making any changes.
For more information, seeMLflow and Machine LearningandMLflow.
Generative AI tools
Prompt flowis a suite of development tools that you can use to streamline the end-to-end development cycle of generative AI applications, from ideation, prototyping, testing, and evaluation to production deployment and monitoring. It supports prompt engineering through expressing actions in a modular orchestration and flow engine.
Prompt flowis a suite of development tools that you can use to streamline the end-to-end development cycle of generative AI applications, from ideation, prototyping, testing, and evaluation to production deployment and monitoring. It supports prompt engineering through expressing actions in a modular orchestration and flow engine.
Azure AI Foundryhelps you experiment, develop, and deploy generative AI apps and APIs responsibly with a comprehensive platform. TheAzure AI Foundry portalprovides access to Azure AI services, foundation models, a playground, and resources to help you build, train, fine-tune, and deploy AI models. You can also evaluate model responses and orchestrate prompt application components with prompt flow for better performance.
Azure AI Foundryhelps you experiment, develop, and deploy generative AI apps and APIs responsibly with a comprehensive platform. TheAzure AI Foundry portalprovides access to Azure AI services, foundation models, a playground, and resources to help you build, train, fine-tune, and deploy AI models. You can also evaluate model responses and orchestrate prompt application components with prompt flow for better performance.
Copilot Studioextends Copilot in Microsoft 365. You can use Copilot Studio to build custom copilots for internal and external scenarios. Use a comprehensive authoring canvas to design, test, and publish copilots. You can easily create generative AI-enabled conversations, provide greater control of responses for existing copilots, and accelerate productivity by using automated workflows.
Copilot Studioextends Copilot in Microsoft 365. You can use Copilot Studio to build custom copilots for internal and external scenarios. Use a comprehensive authoring canvas to design, test, and publish copilots. You can easily create generative AI-enabled conversations, provide greater control of responses for existing copilots, and accelerate productivity by using automated workflows.
Data platforms for AI
The following platforms offer comprehensive solutions for data movement, processing, ingestion, transformation, real-time analytics, and reporting.
Microsoft Fabric
Microsoft Fabric is an end-to-end analytics and data platform for enterprises that require a unified solution. You can grant workload teams access to data within Fabric. The platform covers data movement, processing, ingestion, transformation, real-time event routing, and report building. It offers a comprehensive suite of services, including Fabric Data Engineer, Fabric Data Factory, Fabric Data Science, Fabric Real-Time Intelligence, Fabric Data Warehouse, and Fabric Databases.
Fabric integrates separate components into a cohesive stack. Instead of relying on different databases or data warehouses, you can centralize data storage with OneLake. AI capabilities are embedded within Fabric, which eliminates the need for manual integration.
For more information, see the following resources:
What is Fabric?
Learning path: Get started with Fabric
AI services in Fabric
Use Azure OpenAI in Fabric with REST API
Use Fabric for generative AI: A guide to building and improving RAG systems
Build custom AI applications with Fabric: Implement RAG for enhanced language models
You can use Copilot and other generative AI features to transform and analyze data, generate insights, and create visualizations and reports in Fabric and Power BI. You can build your own copilot or choose one of the following prebuilt copilots:
Copilot in Fabric
Copilot for Data Science and Data Engineer
Copilot for Data Factory
Copilot for Data Warehouse
Copilot for Power BI
Copilot for Real-Time Intelligence
You can use the Fabric AI skill feature to configure a generative AI system to generate queries that answer questions about your data. After you configure an AI skill, you can share it with your colleagues, who can then ask their questions in simple language. Based on their questions, the AI generates queries on the data that answers those questions.
For more information, see the following resources:
What is the AI skill feature in Fabric?
How to create an AI skill
AI skill example
Difference between an AI skill and a copilot
Apache Spark-based data platforms for AI
Apache Spark is a parallel processing framework that supports in-memory processing to boost the performance of big data analytic applications. Spark provides basic building blocks for in-memory cluster computing. A Spark job can load and cache data into memory and query it repeatedly, which is faster than disk-based applications, such as Hadoop.
Fabric Runtime is an Azure-integrated platform based on Apache Spark that enables the implementation and management of data engineering and data science experiences. Fabric Runtime combines key components from internal and open-source sources, which provides a comprehensive solution.
Fabric Runtime has the following key components:
Apache Sparkis a powerful open-source distributed computing library that enables large-scale data processing and analytics tasks. Apache Spark provides a versatile and high-performance platform for data engineering and data science experiences.
Apache Sparkis a powerful open-source distributed computing library that enables large-scale data processing and analytics tasks. Apache Spark provides a versatile and high-performance platform for data engineering and data science experiences.
Delta Lakeis an open-source storage layer that integrates atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) transactions and other data reliability features with Apache Spark. Integrated within Fabric Runtime, Delta Lake enhances data processing capabilities and helps ensure data consistency across multiple concurrent operations.
Delta Lakeis an open-source storage layer that integrates atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) transactions and other data reliability features with Apache Spark. Integrated within Fabric Runtime, Delta Lake enhances data processing capabilities and helps ensure data consistency across multiple concurrent operations.
Default-level packages for Java, Scala, Python, and Rare packages that support diverse programming languages and environments. These packages are automatically installed and configured, so developers can apply their preferred programming languages for data processing tasks.
Default-level packages for Java, Scala, Python, and Rare packages that support diverse programming languages and environments. These packages are automatically installed and configured, so developers can apply their preferred programming languages for data processing tasks.
Fabric Runtime is built on a robust open-source operating system to help ensure compatibility with various hardware configurations and system requirements.
For more information, seeApache Spark runtimes in Fabric.
Azure Databricksis an Apache Spark–based analytics platform that has one-click setup, streamlined workflows, and an interactive workspace for collaboration between data scientists, engineers, and business analysts.
You can useDatabricks Runtime for Machine Learningto start a Databricks cluster with all the libraries required for distributed training. This feature provides an environment for machine learning and data science. It contains multiple popular libraries, including TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, and XGBoost. It also supports distributed training via Horovod.
For more information, see the following resources:
Azure Databricks documentation
Machine learning capabilities in Azure Databricks
Batch scoring of Spark machine learning models on Azure Databricks
Deep learning overview for Azure Databricks
Apache Spark in Azure HDInsightis the Microsoft implementation of Apache Spark in the cloud. Spark clusters in HDInsight are compatible with Azure Storage and Azure Data Lake Storage, so you can use HDInsight Spark clusters to process data that you store in Azure.
SynapseML, formerly known as MMLSpark, is the Microsoft machine learning library for Apache Spark. This open-source library adds many deep learning and data science tools, networking capabilities, and production-grade performance to the Spark ecosystem.
For more information, see the following resources:
SynapseML features and capabilities
HDInsight overview
Tutorial: Build an Apache Spark machine learning application in HDInsight
Apache Spark best practices on HDInsight
Configure HDInsight Apache Spark cluster settings
Create an Apache Spark machine learning pipeline on HDInsight
Data storage for AI
You can use the following platforms to efficiently store, access, and analyze large volumes of data.
Fabric OneLake
OneLake in Fabric is a unified and logical data lake that you can tailor to your entire organization. It serves as the central hub for all analytics data and is included with every Fabric tenant. OneLake in Fabric is built on the foundation of Data Lake Storage.
OneLake in Fabric:
Supports structured and unstructured file types.
Stores all tabular data in Delta-Parquet format.
Provides a single data lake within tenant boundaries that's governed by default.
Supports the creation of workspaces within a tenant so that your organization can distribute ownership and access policies.
Supports the creation of various data items, such as lakehouses and warehouses, from which you can access data.
For more information, seeOneLake, the OneDrive for data.
Data Lake Storage
Data Lake Storage is a single, centralized repository where you can store your structured and unstructured data. Use a data lake to quickly and easily store, access, and analyze a wide variety of data in a single location. You don't need to conform your data to fit an existing structure. Instead, you can store your data in its raw or native format, usually as files or as binary large objects, or blobs.
Data Lake Storage provides file system semantics, file-level security, and scale. Because these capabilities are built on Azure Blob Storage, you also get low-cost, tiered storage that has high availability and disaster recovery capabilities.
Data Lake Storage uses the infrastructure of Azure Storage to create a foundation for building enterprise data lakes on Azure. Data Lake Storage can service multiple petabytes of information while sustaining hundreds of gigabits of throughput so that you can manage massive amounts of data.
For more information, see the following resources:
Introduction to Data Lake Storage
Tutorial: Data Lake Storage, Azure Databricks, and Spark
Data processing for AI
You can use the following tools to prepare data for machine learning and AI applications. Ensure that your data is clean and structured so that you can use it for advanced analytics.
Fabric Data Factory
You can use Fabric Data Factory to ingest, prepare, and transform data from multiple data sources, such as databases, data warehouses, lakehouses, and real-time data streams. This service can help you meet your data operations requirements when you design workloads.
Fabric Data Factory supports code solutions and no-code or low-code solutions:
Usedata pipelinesto create workflow capabilities at cloud scale. Use the drag-and-drop interface to build workflows that can refresh your dataflow, move petabyte-size data, and define control-flow pipelines.
Usedata pipelinesto create workflow capabilities at cloud scale. Use the drag-and-drop interface to build workflows that can refresh your dataflow, move petabyte-size data, and define control-flow pipelines.
Usedataflowsas a low-code interface to ingest data from hundreds of data sources and transform it by using over 300 data transformations.
Usedataflowsas a low-code interface to ingest data from hundreds of data sources and transform it by using over 300 data transformations.
For more information, seeData Factory end-to-end scenario: Introduction and architecture.
Azure Databricks
You can use the Databricks Data Intelligence Platform to write code to create a machine learning workflow by using feature engineering.Feature engineeringis the process of transforming raw data into features that you can use to train machine learning models. Databricks Data Intelligence Platform includes key features that support feature engineering:
Data pipelinesingest raw data, create feature tables, train models, and perform batch inference. When you use feature engineering in Unity Catalog to train and log a model, the model is packaged with feature metadata. When you use the model for batch scoring or online inference, it automatically retrieves feature values. The caller doesn't need to know about the values or include logic to look up or join features to score new data.
Data pipelinesingest raw data, create feature tables, train models, and perform batch inference. When you use feature engineering in Unity Catalog to train and log a model, the model is packaged with feature metadata. When you use the model for batch scoring or online inference, it automatically retrieves feature values. The caller doesn't need to know about the values or include logic to look up or join features to score new data.
Model and feature serving endpointsare instantly accessible and provide milliseconds of latency.
Model and feature serving endpointsare instantly accessible and provide milliseconds of latency.
Monitoringhelps ensure the performance and accuracy of data and models.
Monitoringhelps ensure the performance and accuracy of data and models.
You can also useMosaic AI Vector Searchto store and retrieve embeddings. Embeddings are crucial for applications that require similarity searches, such as RAG, recommendation systems, and image recognition.
For more information, seeAzure Databricks: Serve data for machine learning and AI.
Data connectors for AI
Azure Data Factory and Azure Synapse Analytics pipelines support many data stores and formats via copy, data flow, look up, get metadata, and delete activities. To see the available data store connectors, supported capabilities including the corresponding configurations, and generic Open Database Connectivity options, seeAzure Data Factory and Azure Synapse Analytics connector overview.
Custom AI
Custom AI solutions help you address specific business needs and challenges. The following sections provide an overview of various tools and services that you can use to build and manage custom AI models.
Azure Machine Learning
Azure Machine Learning is a cloud service for accelerating and managing the machine learning project lifecycle. Machine learning professionals, data scientists, and engineers can use this service in their day-to-day workflows to train and deploy models and manage machine learning operations.
Machine Learning offers the following capabilities:
Algorithm selection:Some algorithms make specific assumptions about data structure or desired results. Choose an algorithm that fits your needs so that you can get more useful results, more accurate predictions, and faster training times. For more information, seeHow to select algorithms for Machine Learning.
Algorithm selection:Some algorithms make specific assumptions about data structure or desired results. Choose an algorithm that fits your needs so that you can get more useful results, more accurate predictions, and faster training times. For more information, seeHow to select algorithms for Machine Learning.
Hyperparameter tuning or optimization:You can use this manual process to find hyperparameter configurations that result in the best performance. This optimization incurs significant computational costs.Hyperparametersare adjustable parameters that provide control in the model training process. For example, you can choose the number of hidden layers and the number of nodes in each layer of neural networks. Model performance depends heavily on hyperparameters.You can use Machine Learning to automate hyperparameter tuning and run experiments in parallel to efficiently optimize hyperparameters.For more information, see the following resources:Hyperparameter tuning a model with Machine LearningUpgrade hyperparameter tuning to SDK v2Learning path: Perform hyperparameter tuning with Machine Learning
Hyperparameter tuning or optimization:You can use this manual process to find hyperparameter configurations that result in the best performance. This optimization incurs significant computational costs.Hyperparametersare adjustable parameters that provide control in the model training process. For example, you can choose the number of hidden layers and the number of nodes in each layer of neural networks. Model performance depends heavily on hyperparameters.
You can use Machine Learning to automate hyperparameter tuning and run experiments in parallel to efficiently optimize hyperparameters.
For more information, see the following resources:
Hyperparameter tuning a model with Machine Learning
Upgrade hyperparameter tuning to SDK v2
Learning path: Perform hyperparameter tuning with Machine Learning
Model training:You can iteratively use an algorithm to create orteachmodels. After models are trained, you can use them to analyze data and make predictions.During the training phase:A quality set of known data is tagged so that individual fields are identifiable.An algorithm that's configured to make a particular prediction receives the tagged data.The algorithm outputs a model that captures the patterns that it identified in the data. The model uses a set of parameters to represent these patterns.During validation:Fresh data is tagged and used to test the model.The algorithm is adjusted as needed and possibly does more training.The testing phase uses real-world data without any tags or preselected targets. If the model's results are accurate, it's ready for use and can be deployed.For more information, see the following resources:Train models with Machine LearningTutorial: Train a model in Machine LearningDeep learning and distributed training with Machine Learning
Model training:You can iteratively use an algorithm to create orteachmodels. After models are trained, you can use them to analyze data and make predictions.
During the training phase:
A quality set of known data is tagged so that individual fields are identifiable.
A quality set of known data is tagged so that individual fields are identifiable.
An algorithm that's configured to make a particular prediction receives the tagged data.
An algorithm that's configured to make a particular prediction receives the tagged data.
The algorithm outputs a model that captures the patterns that it identified in the data. The model uses a set of parameters to represent these patterns.
The algorithm outputs a model that captures the patterns that it identified in the data. The model uses a set of parameters to represent these patterns.
During validation:
Fresh data is tagged and used to test the model.
Fresh data is tagged and used to test the model.
The algorithm is adjusted as needed and possibly does more training.
The algorithm is adjusted as needed and possibly does more training.
The testing phase uses real-world data without any tags or preselected targets. If the model's results are accurate, it's ready for use and can be deployed.
The testing phase uses real-world data without any tags or preselected targets. If the model's results are accurate, it's ready for use and can be deployed.
For more information, see the following resources:
Train models with Machine Learning
Tutorial: Train a model in Machine Learning
Deep learning and distributed training with Machine Learning
AutoML:This process automates the time-consuming, iterative tasks of machine learning model development. It can significantly reduce the time that it takes to produce production-ready machine learning models. AutoML can assist with model selection, hyperparameter tuning, model training, and other tasks, without requiring extensive programming or domain knowledge.You can use AutoML when you want Machine Learning to use a specified target metric to train and tune a model. You don't need data science expertise to identify an end-to-end machine learning pipeline for problems.Machine learning professionals and developers across industries can use AutoML to:Implement machine learning solutions without extensive programming or machine learning knowledge.Save time and resources.Apply data science best practices.Provide agile problem-solving.For more information, seeWhat is AutoML?.
AutoML:This process automates the time-consuming, iterative tasks of machine learning model development. It can significantly reduce the time that it takes to produce production-ready machine learning models. AutoML can assist with model selection, hyperparameter tuning, model training, and other tasks, without requiring extensive programming or domain knowledge.
You can use AutoML when you want Machine Learning to use a specified target metric to train and tune a model. You don't need data science expertise to identify an end-to-end machine learning pipeline for problems.
Machine learning professionals and developers across industries can use AutoML to:
Implement machine learning solutions without extensive programming or machine learning knowledge.
Save time and resources.
Apply data science best practices.
Provide agile problem-solving.
For more information, seeWhat is AutoML?.
Scoring:This process, also calledprediction, uses a trained machine learning model to generate values based on new input data. The values, or scores, can represent predictions of future values, but they might also represent a likely category or outcome.For more information, see the following resources:Score modelDeploy models for scoring in batch endpointsBatch scoring of Spark models on Azure Databricks
Scoring:This process, also calledprediction, uses a trained machine learning model to generate values based on new input data. The values, or scores, can represent predictions of future values, but they might also represent a likely category or outcome.
For more information, see the following resources:
Score model
Deploy models for scoring in batch endpoints
Batch scoring of Spark models on Azure Databricks
Feature engineering and featurization:Training data consists of rows and columns. Each row is an observation or record, and the columns of each row are the features that describe each record. Typically, the features that best characterize the patterns in the data are selected to create predictive models.
Feature engineering and featurization:Training data consists of rows and columns. Each row is an observation or record, and the columns of each row are the features that describe each record. Typically, the features that best characterize the patterns in the data are selected to create predictive models.
Although you can use many of the raw data fields to train a model, you might need to create other engineered features that provide information to better differentiate patterns in the data. This process is called feature engineering, where you use domain knowledge of the data to create features that help machine learning algorithms learn better.
In Machine Learning, data-scaling and normalization techniques are applied to make feature engineering easier. Collectively, these techniques and feature engineering are calledfeaturizationin AutoML experiments. For more information, seeData featurization in automated machine learning.
Azure OpenAI
In Azure OpenAI, you can use a process known asfine-tuningto tailor OpenAI models to your personal datasets. This customization step optimizes the service by providing:
Higher quality results compared toprompt engineeringonly.
The ability to train on more examples than a model's maximum request context limit typically permits.
Token savings because of shorter prompts.
Lower-latency requests, particularly when you use smaller models.
For more information, see the following resources:
Customize a model with fine-tuning
Tutorial: Azure OpenAI GPT-4o-mini fine-tuning
Baseline OpenAI end-to-end chat reference architecture
Azure AI services for custom AI
Azure AI servicesprovides features to build custom AI models and applications. The following sections provide an overview of these key features.
Custom speechis a feature of the Azure AI Speech service. You can use custom speech to evaluate and improve the accuracy of speech recognition for your applications and products. Use a custom speech model for real-time speech to text, speech translation, and batch transcription.
By default, speech recognition uses a universal language model as a base model. This model is trained with Microsoft-owned data and reflects commonly used spoken language. The base model is pretrained with dialects and phonetics that represent various common domains. When you make a speech recognition request, the most recent base model for your supported language is used by default. The base model works well in most speech recognition scenarios.
You can use a custom model to augment the base model. For example, you can improve the recognition of domain-specific vocabulary that's specific to an application by providing text data to train the model. You can also improve recognition for specific audio conditions of an application by providing audio data, including reference transcriptions.
If the data follows a pattern, you can use structured text to train a model. You can specify custom pronunciations and customize display text formatting with custom inverse text normalization, custom rewrite, and custom profanity filtering.
Custom translatoris a feature of theAzure AI Translatorservice. Enterprises, app developers, and language service providers can use custom translator to build customized neural machine translation (NMT) systems. The customized translation systems seamlessly integrate into existing applications, workflows, and websites.
You can use this feature to build and publish custom translation systems to and from English. Custom translator supports more than three dozen languages that map directly to the languages for NMT. For a complete list of languages, seeTranslator language support.
Custom translator offers the following features.
Azure AI Document Intelligenceuses advanced machine learning technology to identify documents, detect and extract information from forms and documents, and return the extracted data in a structured JSON output. Use Document Intelligence to take advantage of prebuilt or pretrained document analysis models or trained standalone custom models.
Document Intelligence custom modelsinclude custom classification models for scenarios where you need to identify the document type before you invoke the extraction model. You can pair a classification model with a custom extraction model to analyze and extract fields from forms and documents that are specific to your business. Combine standalone custom extraction models to createcomposed models.
Custom AI tools
Prebuilt AI models are useful and increasingly flexible, but the best way to optimize AI is to tailor a model to your specific needs. Two primary tools to create custom AI models are generative AI and traditional machine learning.
Azure Machine Learning studiois a cloud service for accelerating and managing the machine learning project lifecycle. Machine learning professionals, data scientists, and engineers can use it in their day-to-day workflows to train and deploy models and manage machine learning operations.
Build and train Machine Learning models by using any type of compute, including Spark and GPUs for cloud-scale large AI workloads.
Build and train Machine Learning models by using any type of compute, including Spark and GPUs for cloud-scale large AI workloads.
Run AutoML and use the drag-and-drop UI for low-code Machine Learning.
Run AutoML and use the drag-and-drop UI for low-code Machine Learning.
Implement end-to-end Machine Learning operations and repeatable pipelines.
Implement end-to-end Machine Learning operations and repeatable pipelines.
Use the responsible AI dashboard for bias detection and error analysis.
Use the responsible AI dashboard for bias detection and error analysis.
Orchestrate and manage prompt engineering and LLM flows.
Orchestrate and manage prompt engineering and LLM flows.
Deploy models via REST API endpoints, real-time inference, and batch inference.
Deploy models via REST API endpoints, real-time inference, and batch inference.
Use hub workspaces to share compute, quota, security, and connectivity to company resources, while centralizing governance for IT. Set up a hub once, then create secure workspaces directly from the studio for each project. Use hubs to manage your team's work in the studio and theAzure AI Foundry portal.
Use hub workspaces to share compute, quota, security, and connectivity to company resources, while centralizing governance for IT. Set up a hub once, then create secure workspaces directly from the studio for each project. Use hubs to manage your team's work in the studio and theAzure AI Foundry portal.
AI Foundryhelps you efficiently build and deploy custom generative AI applications with the power of broad Azure AI offerings.
Build together as one team. Your AI Foundry hub provides enterprise-grade security and a collaborative environment that includes shared resources and connections to pretrained models, data, and compute.
Build together as one team. Your AI Foundry hub provides enterprise-grade security and a collaborative environment that includes shared resources and connections to pretrained models, data, and compute.
Organize your work. Your AI Foundry project helps you save state so that you can iterate from the first idea to the first prototype and first production deployment. Easily invite others to collaborate with you.
Organize your work. Your AI Foundry project helps you save state so that you can iterate from the first idea to the first prototype and first production deployment. Easily invite others to collaborate with you.
Use your preferred development platform and frameworks, including GitHub, Visual Studio Code, LangChain, Semantic Kernel, and AutoGen.
Use your preferred development platform and frameworks, including GitHub, Visual Studio Code, LangChain, Semantic Kernel, and AutoGen.
Discover and benchmark from over 1,600 models.
Discover and benchmark from over 1,600 models.
Provision models as a service (MaaS) through serverless APIs and hosted fine-tuning.
Provision models as a service (MaaS) through serverless APIs and hosted fine-tuning.
Incorporate multiple models, data sources, and modalities.
Incorporate multiple models, data sources, and modalities.
Build RAG by using your protected enterprise data, without the need for fine-tuning.
Build RAG by using your protected enterprise data, without the need for fine-tuning.
Orchestrate and manage prompt engineering and LLM flows.
Orchestrate and manage prompt engineering and LLM flows.
Design and safeguard apps and APIs via configurable filters and controls.
Design and safeguard apps and APIs via configurable filters and controls.
Evaluate model responses by using built-in and custom evaluation flows.
Evaluate model responses by using built-in and custom evaluation flows.
Deploy AI innovations to the Azure-managed infrastructure to provide continuous monitoring and governance across environments.
Deploy AI innovations to the Azure-managed infrastructure to provide continuous monitoring and governance across environments.
Continuously monitor deployed apps for safety, quality, and token consumption in production.
Continuously monitor deployed apps for safety, quality, and token consumption in production.
For more information, seeAI Foundry portal versus Machine Learning studio.
Prompt flow in the AI Foundry portalis a development tool that you can use to streamline the entire development cycle of AI applications that are powered by LLMs. Prompt flow provides a comprehensive solution that simplifies the process of prototyping, experimenting, iterating, and deploying your AI applications.
Prompt flow is a feature that you can use to generate, customize, or run a flow.
Prompt flow is a feature that you can use to generate, customize, or run a flow.
A flow is an instruction set that can implement AI logic. Create or run flows via tools, like a prebuilt canvas or LangChain. You can save iterations of a flow as assets. After you deploy a flow, it becomes an API. Not all flows are prompt flows. Prompt flow is one way to create a flow.
A flow is an instruction set that can implement AI logic. Create or run flows via tools, like a prebuilt canvas or LangChain. You can save iterations of a flow as assets. After you deploy a flow, it becomes an API. Not all flows are prompt flows. Prompt flow is one way to create a flow.
A prompt is a package of input that's sent to a model. It consists of the user input, system message, and any examples. User input is text that's submitted in the chat window. The system message is a set of instructions to the model that scopes its behaviors and functionality.
A prompt is a package of input that's sent to a model. It consists of the user input, system message, and any examples. User input is text that's submitted in the chat window. The system message is a set of instructions to the model that scopes its behaviors and functionality.
A sample flow is a simple, prebuilt orchestration flow that shows how flows work. You can customize a sample flow.
A sample flow is a simple, prebuilt orchestration flow that shows how flows work. You can customize a sample flow.
A sample prompt is a defined prompt for a specific scenario that you can copy from a library and use as-is or modify it in prompt design.
A sample prompt is a defined prompt for a specific scenario that you can copy from a library and use as-is or modify it in prompt design.
Custom AI code languages
The core concept of AI is the use of algorithms to analyze data and generate models to describe, or score, it in useful ways. Developers and data scientists, and sometimes other algorithms, use programming code to write algorithms. Two of the most popular programming languages for AI development are Python and R.
Pythonis a general-purpose, high-level programming language. It has a simple, easy-to-learn syntax that emphasizes readability. There's no compiling step. Python has a large standard library, and it supports the ability to add modules and packages. This feature encourages modularity and lets you expand capabilities when needed. There's a large and growing ecosystem of AI and machine learning libraries for Python, including many in Azure.
For more information, see the following resources:
Python on Azure product home page
Azure for Python developers
Machine Learning SDK for Python
Introduction to machine learning with Python and notebooks
scikit-learn open-source machine learning library for Python
PyTorch open-source Python library
TensorFlow open-source symbolic math library
Tutorial: Apply machine learning models in Azure Functions with Python and TensorFlow
Ris a language and environment for statistical computing and graphics. You can use it for everything from mapping broad social and marketing trends online to developing financial and climate models.
Microsoft fully embraces the R programming language and provides many options for R developers to run their code in Azure.
For more information, seeUse R interactively on Machine Learning.
For general information about custom AI on Azure, see the following resources:
Microsoft AI on GitHub: Samples, reference architectures, and best practices
Machine Learning SDK for Python
Machine Learning examples repository
Train R models by using the Machine Learning CLI v2
Customer stories
Many industries apply AI in innovative and inspiring ways. Consider the following customer case studies and success stories:
Volkswagen: Machine translation speaks Volkswagen in 60 languages
Healthcare for all with Kry using Azure OpenAI
PIMCO boosts client service with an AI-powered search platform built on Azure AI
Legrand and Azure OpenAI: Powering smarter solutions with AI-driven tools
C.H. Robinson overcomes decades-old barriers to automate the logistics industry by using Azure AI
Browse more AI customer stories
General information about Microsoft AI
Learn more about Microsoft AI, and stay up to date with related news:
Microsoft AI
AI learning hub
Azure AI
Microsoft AI news
Microsoft AI on GitHub: Samples, reference architectures, and best practices
Azure Architecture Center
Next step
AI workloads on Azure
Related resource
Architecture diagrams and technology descriptions for AI solutions reference architectures
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources