Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Review your data options
Article
2023-07-21
4 contributors
In this article
When you prepare your landing zone environment for your cloud adoption, you need to determine the data requirements for hosting your workloads. Azure database products and services support various data storage scenarios and capabilities. How you configure your landing zone environment to support your data requirements depends on your workload governance, technical, and business requirements.
Identify data services requirements
As part of your landing zone evaluation and preparation, you need to identify the data stores that your landing zone needs to support. The process involves assessing each of the applications and services that make up your workloads to determine their data storage and access requirements. After you identify and document these requirements, you can create policies for your landing zone to control allowed resource types based on your workload needs.
For each application or service you deploy to your landing zone environment, use the following information as a starting point to help you determine the appropriate data store services to use.
Key questions
Answer the following questions about your workloads to help you make decisions based on the Azure database services decision tree:
What is the level of control of the OS and database engine required?Some scenarios require you to have a high degree of control or ownership of the software configuration and host servers for your database workloads. In these scenarios, you can deploy custom infrastructure as a service (IaaS) virtual machines to fully control the deployment and configuration of data services. You might not require this level of control, but maybe you're not ready to move to a full platform as a service (PaaS) solution. In that case, a managed instance can provide higher compatibility with your on-premises database engine while offering the benefits of a fully managed platform.
Will your workloads use a relational database technology?If so, what technology do you plan to use? Azure provides managed PaaS database capabilities forAzure SQL Database,MySQL,PostgreSQL, andMariaDB.Azure Cosmos DB supportsMongoDBandPostgreSQLAPIs to take advantage of the many benefits that Azure Cosmos DB offers, including automatic high availability and instantaneous scalability.
Azure Cosmos DB supportsMongoDBandPostgreSQLAPIs to take advantage of the many benefits that Azure Cosmos DB offers, including automatic high availability and instantaneous scalability.
Will your workloads use SQL Server?In Azure, you can have your workloads running in IaaS-basedSQL Server on Azure Virtual Machinesor on the PaaS-basedAzure SQL Database hosted service. Choosing which option to use is primarily a question of whether you want to manage your database, apply patches, and take backups, or if you want to delegate these operations to Azure. In some scenarios, compatibility issues might require the use of IaaS-hosted SQL Server. For more information about how to choose the correct option for your workloads, seeChoose the right SQL Server option in Azure.
Will your workloads use key/value database storage?Azure Cache for Redisoffers a high-performance cached key/value data storage solution that can power fast, scalable applications.Azure Cosmos DBalso provides general-purpose key/value storage capabilities.
Will your workloads use document or graph data?Azure Cosmos DBis a multimodel database service that supports various data types and APIs. Azure Cosmos DB also provides document and graph database capabilities.MongoDBandApache Gremlinare document and graph APIs that are supported by Azure Cosmos DB.
MongoDBandApache Gremlinare document and graph APIs that are supported by Azure Cosmos DB.
Will your workloads use column-family data?Azure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandraoffers a fully managed Apache Cassandra cluster that can extend your existing datacenters into Azure or act as a cloud-only cluster and datacenter.Apache CassandraAPI is also supported by Azure Cosmos DB. See theproduct comparisondocumentation to help guide your decision on the best fit for your workload.
Apache CassandraAPI is also supported by Azure Cosmos DB. See theproduct comparisondocumentation to help guide your decision on the best fit for your workload.
Will your workloads require high-capacity data analytics capabilities?You can useAzure Synapse Analyticsto effectively store and query structured petabyte-scale data. For unstructured big data workloads, you can useAzure Data Laketo store and analyze petabyte-size files and trillions of objects.
Will your workloads require search engine capabilities?You can useAzure AI Searchto build AI-enhanced cloud-based search indexes that you can integrate into your applications.
Will your workloads use time series data?Azure Time Series Insightsis built to store, visualize, and query large amounts of time series data, such as data generated by IoT devices.
Note
Learn more about how to assess database options for each of your applications or services in theAzure application architecture guide.
Common database scenarios
The following table lists common use-scenario requirements and the recommended database services for handling them.
Database feature comparison
The following table lists features available in Azure database services.
Note
Private link servicesimplifies networking design to allow Azure services to communicate over private networking. It's supported for all Azure database services. In the case of Managed Instance database services, these instances are deployed in virtual networks, which negates the need to deployprivate endpointsfor them.
Regional availability
Azure lets you deliver services at the scale you need to reach your customers and partnerswherever they are. A key factor in planning your cloud deployment is to determine what Azure region will host your workload resources.
Most database services are generally available in most Azure regions. A few regions support only a subset of these products, but they mostly target governmental customers. Before you decide which regions you'll deploy your database resources to, seeProducts available by regionto check the latest status of regional availability.
To learn more about Azure global infrastructure, seeAzure geographies. For specific details about the overall services that are available in each Azure region, seeProducts available by region.
Data residency and compliance requirements
Legal and contractual requirements that are related to data storage often apply to your workloads. These requirements might vary based on the location of your organization, the jurisdiction of the physical assets that host your data stores, and your applicable business sector. Components of data obligations to consider include:
Data classification.
Data location.
Responsibilities for data protection under the shared responsibility model.
For help with understanding these requirements, seeAchieving compliant data residency and security with Azure.
Part of your compliance efforts might include controlling where your database resources are physically located. Azure regions are organized into groups called geographies. AnAzure geographyensures that data residency, sovereignty, compliance, and resiliency requirements are honored within geographical and political boundaries. If your workloads are subject to data sovereignty or other compliance requirements, you must deploy your storage resources to regions in a compliant Azure geography.
Establish controls for database services
When you prepare your landing zone environment, you can establish controls that limit what data stores that users can deploy. Controls can help you manage costs and limit security risks. Developers and IT teams will still be able to deploy and configure resources that are needed to support your workloads.
After you identify and document your landing zone's requirements, you can useAzure Policyto control the database resources that you allow users to create. Controls can take the form of allowing or denying the creation ofdatabase resource types.
For example, you might restrict users to creating only Azure SQL Database resources. You can also use policies to control the allowable options when a resource is created. For example, you can restrict what SQL Database SKUs can be provisioned by allowing only specific versions of SQL Server to be installed on an IaaS VM. For more information, seeAzure Policy built-in policy definitions.
Policies can be scoped to resources, resource groups, subscriptions, and management groups. You can include your policies inAzure Blueprintsdefinitions and apply them repeatedly throughout your cloud estate.
Next steps
Reviewdatabase security best practices.
Review a comparison ofAzure SQL deployment options.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources