Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Cloud HSM Preview?
Article
2025-04-25
2 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Azure Cloud HSM Preview is a highly available, FIPS 140-3 Level 3 validated single-tenant HSM service that is compliant with industry standards. Azure Cloud HSM grants customers complete administrative authority over their Hardware Security Module (HSM). It provides a secure and customer owned HSM cluster for storing cryptographic keys and performing cryptographic operations. It's the ideal solution for customers who require FIPS 140-3 Level 3 validated Hardware Security Modules and supporting various applications, including PKCS#11, offload SSL/TLS processing, certificate authority private key protection, transparent data encryption, including document and code signing.
Note
Microsoft Azure Cloud HSM is available through Public Preview in West Europe and UK West. See theSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previewsfor legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Why use Azure Cloud HSM?
Fully Managed
Many customers require administrative control of their HSM but don't want the overhead and ancillary costs that come with cluster management for high availability, patching and maintenance. Azure Cloud HSM customers have secure, direct end to end encrypted access to their HSM instances in their HSM cluster over a private dedicated link from their VNET. After a customer provisions an Azure Cloud HSM cluster the customer maintains administrative access to their HSM while the Azure Cloud HSM service takes care of high availability, patching and maintenance through the service.
Customer owned, highly available, single-tenant HSM as a service
Microsoft Azure Cloud HSM provides high availability and redundancy by grouping multiple HSMs into an HSM cluster and automatically synchronizing keys and policies across each HSM instance. Each HSM cluster consists of 3 HSM partitions. If an HSM resource becomes unavailable, member partitions for your HSM cluster will be automatically and securely migrated to healthy nodes. The Azure Cloud HSM cluster supports load balancing of cryptographic operations, and periodic HSM backups ensure secure and simple data recovery.
Single-Tenant HSM Clusters
Each Azure Cloud HSM instance is dedicated to a single customer and consists of a cluster of 3 HSM partitions. Each HSM cluster uses a separate customer-specific security domain that cryptographically isolates each customer's HSM cluster.
FIPS 140-3 Level 3 compliance
Many organizations have stringent industry regulations that dictate that cryptographic keys must be stored inFIPS 140-3 Level 3validated HSMs. Azure Cloud HSM helps customers from various industry segments, such as financial services industry, government agencies, and others meet FIPS 140-2 Level-3 requirements.
Azure Cloud HSM suitability
Best fit
Microsoft Azure Cloud HSM is most suitable for the following types of scenarios:
Migrating applications from on-premises to Azure Virtual Machines.
Migrating applications from Azure Dedicated HSM or AWS Cloud HSM.
Supporting applications that require PKCS#11.
Running shrink-wrapped software such as Apache/Ngnix SSL Offload, MSSQL/Oracle TDE, and ADCS in Azure Virtual Machines.
Note
Microsoft Azure Cloud HSM Supports:
PKCS#11, OpenSSL, JCA/JCE, CNG/KSP
ADCS (Active Directory Certificate Services)
SSL/TLS Offloading (Apache/Nginx)
MSSQL/Oracle TDE (Transparent Data Encryption)
Document/File/Code Signing
Not a fit
Microsoft Azure Cloud HSM does not integrate with other PaaS/SaaS Azure services. Azure Cloud HSM is IaaS only.
Microsoft Azure Cloud HSM is not a good fit for the following type of scenarios: Microsoft cloud services that require support for encryption with customer-managed keys (such as Azure Information Protection, Azure Disk Encryption, Azure Data Lake Store, Azure Storage, and Customer Key for Office 365). For those scenarios customers should useAzure Managed HSM.
Note
Azure Cloud HSM isNota Bare-Metal HSM appliance.
Azure Cloud HSM isNota Secret Store.
Azure Cloud HSM isNota Certificate Lifecycle Management offering.
Next steps
Integration Guides andMicrosoft Azure Cloud HSM SDKare available to help you facilitate the provisioning and configuration of HSMs into your existing virtual network environment.
Azure Cloud HSM SDK
Key Management in Azure
Deploy Azure Cloud HSM using the Azure portal
Deploy Azure Cloud HSM using Azure PowerShell
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources