Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Control network traffic in Azure HDInsight
Article
2024-06-15
9 contributors
In this article
Network traffic in an Azure Virtual Networks can be controlled using the following methods:
Network security groups(NSG) allow you to filter inbound and outbound traffic to the network. For more information, see theFilter network traffic with network security groupsdocument.
Network security groups(NSG) allow you to filter inbound and outbound traffic to the network. For more information, see theFilter network traffic with network security groupsdocument.
Network virtual appliances(NVA) can be used with outbound traffic only. NVAs replicate the functionality of devices such as firewalls and routers. For more information, see theNetwork Appliancesdocument.
Network virtual appliances(NVA) can be used with outbound traffic only. NVAs replicate the functionality of devices such as firewalls and routers. For more information, see theNetwork Appliancesdocument.
As a managed service, HDInsight requires unrestricted access to the HDInsight health and management services both for incoming and outgoing traffic from the VNET. When using NSGs, you must ensure that these services can still communicate with HDInsight cluster.

HDInsight with network security groups
If you plan on usingnetwork security groupsto control network traffic, perform the following actions before installing HDInsight:
Identify the Azure region that you plan to use for HDInsight.
Identify the Azure region that you plan to use for HDInsight.
Identify the service tags required by HDInsight for your region. There are multiple ways to obtain these service tags:Consult the list of published service tags inNetwork security group (NSG) service tags for Azure HDInsight.If your region isn't present in the list, use theService Tag Discovery APIto find a service tag for your region.If you are unable to use the API, download theservice tag JSON fileand search for your desired region.
Identify the service tags required by HDInsight for your region. There are multiple ways to obtain these service tags:
Consult the list of published service tags inNetwork security group (NSG) service tags for Azure HDInsight.
If your region isn't present in the list, use theService Tag Discovery APIto find a service tag for your region.
If you are unable to use the API, download theservice tag JSON fileand search for your desired region.
Create or modify the network security groups for the subnet that you plan to install HDInsight into.Network security groups: allowinboundtraffic on port443from the IP addresses. This will ensure that HDInsight management services can reach the cluster from outside the virtual network. ForKafka REST proxyenabled clusters, allowinboundtraffic on port9400as well. This will ensure that Kafka REST proxy server is reachable.
Create or modify the network security groups for the subnet that you plan to install HDInsight into.
Network security groups: allowinboundtraffic on port443from the IP addresses. This will ensure that HDInsight management services can reach the cluster from outside the virtual network. ForKafka REST proxyenabled clusters, allowinboundtraffic on port9400as well. This will ensure that Kafka REST proxy server is reachable.
For more information on network security groups, see theoverview of network security groups.
Controlling outbound traffic from HDInsight clusters
For more information on controlling outbound traffic from HDInsight clusters, seeConfigure outbound network traffic restriction for Azure HDInsight clusters.
Forced tunneling to on-premises
Forced tunneling is a user-defined routing configuration where all traffic from a subnet is forced to a specific network or location, such as your on-premises network or Firewall. Forced tunneling of all data transfer back to on-premises isnotrecommended due to large volumes of data transfer and potential performance impact.
Customers who are interested to set up forced tunneling, should usecustom metastoresand set up the appropriate connectivity from the cluster subnet or on-premises network to these custom metastores.
To see an example of the UDR set up with Azure Firewall, seeConfigure outbound network traffic restriction for Azure HDInsight clusters.
Required ports
If you plan on using afirewalland access the cluster from outside on certain ports, you might need to allow traffic on those ports needed for your scenario. By default, no special filtering of ports is needed as long as the Azure management traffic explained in the previous section is allowed to reach cluster on port 443.
For a list of ports for specific services, see thePorts used by Apache Hadoop services on HDInsightdocument.
For more information on firewall rules for virtual appliances, see thevirtual appliance scenariodocument.
Next steps
For code samples and examples of creating Azure Virtual Networks, seeCreate virtual networks for Azure HDInsight clusters.
For an end-to-end example of configuring HDInsight to connect to an on-premises network, seeConnect HDInsight to an on-premises network.
For more information on Azure virtual networks, see theAzure Virtual Network overview.
For more information on network security groups, seeNetwork security groups.
For more information on user-defined routes, seeUser-defined routes and IP forwarding.
For more information on virtual networks, seePlan VNETs for HDInsight.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources