Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Reliability in Azure Data Factory
Article
2025-04-08
5 contributors
In this article
This article describes reliability support inAzure Data Factory. It covers intra-regional resiliency viaavailability zonesandmulti-region deployments.
Reliability is a shared responsibility between you and Microsoft. This article describes ways for you to create a reliable solution that meets your needs.
You can use Data Factory to create flexible and powerful data pipelines for serverless data integration and data transformation. As a result, when you define yourbusiness continuity planfor reliability, you need to consider the reliability requirements and guidance for:
Data Factory pipelines.
Data Factory pipelines.
Integration runtimes (IRs), which connect to data stores and perform activities defined in your pipeline.
Integration runtimes (IRs), which connect to data stores and perform activities defined in your pipeline.
Data stores that connect to the data factory.To help ensure that data stores meet your business continuity requirements, consult their product reliability documentation and guidance.
Data stores that connect to the data factory.To help ensure that data stores meet your business continuity requirements, consult their product reliability documentation and guidance.
Reliability architecture overview
Data Factory consists of multiple infrastructure components. Each component supports infrastructure reliability in various ways.
The components of Data Factory include:
The core Data Factory service, which manages pipeline triggers and oversees the coordination of pipeline activities. The core service also manages metadata for each component in the data factory. Microsoft manages the core service.
The core Data Factory service, which manages pipeline triggers and oversees the coordination of pipeline activities. The core service also manages metadata for each component in the data factory. Microsoft manages the core service.
Integration runtimes (IRs), which perform specific activities within a pipeline. There are different types of IRs.Microsoft-managed IRs, which include the Azure IR and the Azure-SQL Server Integration Services (Azure-SSIS) IR. Microsoft manages the components that make up these runtimes. In some scenarios, you configure settings that affect the resiliency of your IRs.Self-hosted integration runtimes (SHIRs). Microsoft provides software that you can run on your own compute infrastructure to perform some parts of your Data Factory pipelines. You're responsible for the deployment and management of compute resources, and for the resiliency of those compute resources.
Integration runtimes (IRs), which perform specific activities within a pipeline. There are different types of IRs.
Microsoft-managed IRs, which include the Azure IR and the Azure-SQL Server Integration Services (Azure-SSIS) IR. Microsoft manages the components that make up these runtimes. In some scenarios, you configure settings that affect the resiliency of your IRs.
Microsoft-managed IRs, which include the Azure IR and the Azure-SQL Server Integration Services (Azure-SSIS) IR. Microsoft manages the components that make up these runtimes. In some scenarios, you configure settings that affect the resiliency of your IRs.
Self-hosted integration runtimes (SHIRs). Microsoft provides software that you can run on your own compute infrastructure to perform some parts of your Data Factory pipelines. You're responsible for the deployment and management of compute resources, and for the resiliency of those compute resources.
Self-hosted integration runtimes (SHIRs). Microsoft provides software that you can run on your own compute infrastructure to perform some parts of your Data Factory pipelines. You're responsible for the deployment and management of compute resources, and for the resiliency of those compute resources.
Transient faults
Transient faults are short, intermittent failures in components. They occur frequently in a distributed environment like the cloud, and they're a normal part of operations. They correct themselves after a short period of time. It's important that your applications handle transient faults, usually by retrying affected requests.
All cloud-hosted applications should follow the Azure transient fault handling guidance when communicating with any cloud-hosted APIs, databases, and other components. For more information, seeRecommendations for handing transient faults.
When you use Data Factory, it's important to prepare for transient faults, especially when you design pipelines and activities.
Idempotence
Your pipeline activities should beidempotent, which means that they can be rerun multiple times without causing any adverse effects. If a transient fault like a network failure or an availability zone outage occurs, Data Factory might rerun pipeline activities. This rerun can create duplicate records.
To prevent duplicate record insertion because of a transient fault, implement the following best practices:
Use unique identifiersfor each record before you write to the database. This approach can help you find and eliminate duplicate records.
Use unique identifiersfor each record before you write to the database. This approach can help you find and eliminate duplicate records.
Use an upsert strategyfor connectors that support upsert. Before duplicate record insertion occurs, use this approach to check whether a record already exists. If it does exist, update it. If it doesn't exist, insert it. For example, SQL commands likeMERGEorON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATEuse this upsert approach.
Use an upsert strategyfor connectors that support upsert. Before duplicate record insertion occurs, use this approach to check whether a record already exists. If it does exist, update it. If it doesn't exist, insert it. For example, SQL commands likeMERGEorON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATEuse this upsert approach.
MERGE
ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE
Use copy action strategies.For more information, seeData consistency verification in copy activity.
Use copy action strategies.For more information, seeData consistency verification in copy activity.
Retry policies
You can use retry policies to configure parts of your pipeline to retry if there's a problem, like transient faults in connected resources. In Data Factory, you can configure retry policies on the following pipeline object types:
Tumbling window triggers
Execution activities
For more information about how to change or disable retry policies for your data factory triggers and activities, seePipeline runs and triggers.
Availability zone support
Availability zones are physically separate groups of datacenters within each Azure region. When one zone fails, services can fail over to one of the remaining zones.
For more information on availability zones in Azure, seeWhat are availability zones?
Data Factory supports zone redundancy, which provides resiliency to failures inavailability zones. This section describes how each part of the Data Factory service supports zone redundancy.
Regions supported
Zone-redundant Data Factory resources can be deployed inany region that supports availability zones.
Considerations
Core service:Microsoft manages the components in the core Data Factory service and spreads them across availability zones.
IRs:Zone redundancy support depends on the type of IR that you use.
An Azure IRsupports zone redundancy, and Microsoft manages this capability.
An Azure IRsupports zone redundancy, and Microsoft manages this capability.
An Azure-SSIS IRrequires you to deploy at least two nodes. These nodes are allocated into different availability zones automatically.
An Azure-SSIS IRrequires you to deploy at least two nodes. These nodes are allocated into different availability zones automatically.
A SHIRgives you the responsibility for deploying the compute infrastructure to host the runtime. You can deploy multiple nodes, such as individual virtual machines (VMs), and configure them for high availability. You can then distribute those nodes across multiple availability zones. For more information, seeHigh availability and scalability.
A SHIRgives you the responsibility for deploying the compute infrastructure to host the runtime. You can deploy multiple nodes, such as individual virtual machines (VMs), and configure them for high availability. You can then distribute those nodes across multiple availability zones. For more information, seeHigh availability and scalability.
Cost
Core service:No extra cost applies for zone redundancy.
IRs:The cost of zone redundancy varies depending on the type of IR that you use.
An Azure IRincludes zone redundancy at no extra cost.
An Azure IRincludes zone redundancy at no extra cost.
An Azure-SSIS IRrequires you to deploy at least two nodes to achieve zone redundancy. For more information about how each node is billed, seePricing example: Run SSIS packages on an Azure-SSIS IR.
An Azure-SSIS IRrequires you to deploy at least two nodes to achieve zone redundancy. For more information about how each node is billed, seePricing example: Run SSIS packages on an Azure-SSIS IR.
A SHIRrequires you to deploy and manage the compute infrastructure. To achieve zone resiliency, you need to spread your compute resources across multiple zones. Depending on the number of nodes that you deploy and how you configure them, you might incur extra costs from the underlying compute services and other supporting services. There's no extra charge to run the SHIR on multiple nodes.
A SHIRrequires you to deploy and manage the compute infrastructure. To achieve zone resiliency, you need to spread your compute resources across multiple zones. Depending on the number of nodes that you deploy and how you configure them, you might incur extra costs from the underlying compute services and other supporting services. There's no extra charge to run the SHIR on multiple nodes.
Configure availability zone support
Core service:No configuration required. The Data Factory core service automatically supports zone redundancy.
IRs:
An Azure IR:No configuration required. The Azure IR automatically enables zone redundancy.
An Azure IR:No configuration required. The Azure IR automatically enables zone redundancy.
An Azure-SSIS IR:No configuration required. An Azure-SSIS IR automatically enables zone redundancy when it's deployed with two or more nodes.
An Azure-SSIS IR:No configuration required. An Azure-SSIS IR automatically enables zone redundancy when it's deployed with two or more nodes.
A SHIRrequires you to configure your own resiliency, which includes spreading your nodes across multiple availability zones.
A SHIRrequires you to configure your own resiliency, which includes spreading your nodes across multiple availability zones.
Capacity planning and management
Core service:The Data Factory core service scales automatically based on demand, and you don't need to plan or manage capacity.
IRs:
An Azure IRscales automatically based on demand, and you don't need to plan or manage capacity.
An Azure IRscales automatically based on demand, and you don't need to plan or manage capacity.
An Azure-SSIS IRrequires you to specifically configure the number of nodes that you use. To prepare for availability zone failure, consider over-provisioning the capacity of your IR. Over-provisioning allows the solution to tolerate some degree of capacity loss and still continue to function without degraded performance. For more information, seeManage capacity by over-provisioning.
An Azure-SSIS IRrequires you to specifically configure the number of nodes that you use. To prepare for availability zone failure, consider over-provisioning the capacity of your IR. Over-provisioning allows the solution to tolerate some degree of capacity loss and still continue to function without degraded performance. For more information, seeManage capacity by over-provisioning.
A SHIRrequires you to configure your own capacity and scaling. Consider over-provisioning when you deploy a SHIR.
A SHIRrequires you to configure your own capacity and scaling. Consider over-provisioning when you deploy a SHIR.
Normal operations
Traffic routing between zones:During normal operations, Data Factory automatically distributes pipeline activities, triggers, and other work among healthy instances in each availability zone.
Zone-down experience
Detection and response:The Data Factory platform is responsible for detecting a failure in an availability zone and responding. You don't need to do anything to initiate a zone failover in your pipelines or other components.
Active requests:Any pipelines and triggers in progress continue to run, and you don't experience any immediate disruption from a zone failure. However, activities in progress during a zone failure might fail and be restarted. It's important to design activities to be idempotent, which helps them recover from zone failures and other faults. For more information, seeTransient faults.
Failback
When the availability zone recovers, Data Factory automatically fails back to the original zone. You don't need to do anything to initiate a zone failback in your pipelines or other components.
However, if you use a SHIR, you might need to restart your compute resources if they've been stopped.
Testing for zone failures
For the core service, and for Azure and Azure-SSIS IRs, Data Factory manages traffic routing, failover, and failback for zone-redundant resources. Because this feature is fully managed, you don't need to initiate or validate availability zone failure processes.
For SHIRs, you can useAzure Chaos Studioto simulate an availability zone failure on an Azure VM.
Multi-region support
Data Factory resources are deployed into a single Azure region. If the region becomes unavailable, your data factory is also unavailable. However, there are approaches that you can use to help ensure resilience to region outages. These approaches depend on whether the data factory is in a paired or nonpaired region and on your specific requirements and configuration.
Microsoft-managed failover to a paired region
Data Factory supports Microsoft-managed failover for data factories in paired regions, except for Brazil South and Southeast Asia. In the unlikely event of a prolonged region failure, Microsoft might initiate a regional failover of your Data Factory instance.
Because of data residency requirements in Brazil South and Southeast Asia, Data Factory data is stored only in the local region by usingAzure Storage zone-redundant storage. For Southeast Asia, all data is stored in Singapore. For Brazil South, all data is stored in Brazil.
For data factories in nonpaired regions, or in Brazil South or Southeast Asia, Microsoft doesn't perform regional failover on your behalf.
Important
Microsoft triggers Microsoft-managed failover. It's likely to occur after a significant delay and is done on a best-effort basis. There are also some exceptions to this process. You might experience some loss of your data factory metadata. The failover of Data Factory resources might occur at a time that's different from the failover time of other Azure services.
If you need to be resilient to region outages, consider using one of thealternative multi-region approaches.
To prepare for a failover, there might be some extra considerations, depending on the IR that you use.
You can configure theAzure IRto automatically resolve the region that it uses. If the region is set toauto resolveand there's an outage in the primary region, the Azure IR automatically fails over to the paired region. This failover is subject tolimitations. To configure the Azure IR region for your activity implementation or dispatch in the IR setup, set the region toauto resolve.
You can configure theAzure IRto automatically resolve the region that it uses. If the region is set toauto resolveand there's an outage in the primary region, the Azure IR automatically fails over to the paired region. This failover is subject tolimitations. To configure the Azure IR region for your activity implementation or dispatch in the IR setup, set the region toauto resolve.
Azure-SSIS IRfailover is managed separately from a Microsoft-managed failover of the data factory. For more information, seeAlternative multi-region approaches.
Azure-SSIS IRfailover is managed separately from a Microsoft-managed failover of the data factory. For more information, seeAlternative multi-region approaches.
A SHIRruns on infrastructure that you're responsible for, so a Microsoft-managed failover doesn't apply to SHIRs. For more information, seeAlternative multi-region approaches.
A SHIRruns on infrastructure that you're responsible for, so a Microsoft-managed failover doesn't apply to SHIRs. For more information, seeAlternative multi-region approaches.
After a Microsoft-managed failover is complete, you can access your Data Factory pipeline in the paired region. However, after the failover completes, you might need to perform some reconfiguration for IRs or other components. This process includes re-establishing the networking configuration.
Alternative multi-region approaches
If you need your pipelines to be resilient to regional outages and you need control over the failover process, consider using a metadata-driven pipeline.
Set up source control for Data Factoryto track and audit any changes to your metadata. You can use this approach to access your metadata JSON files for pipelines, datasets, linked services, and triggers. Data Factory supports different Git repository types, like Azure DevOps and GitHub. For more information, seeSource control in Data Factory.
Set up source control for Data Factoryto track and audit any changes to your metadata. You can use this approach to access your metadata JSON files for pipelines, datasets, linked services, and triggers. Data Factory supports different Git repository types, like Azure DevOps and GitHub. For more information, seeSource control in Data Factory.
Use a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) system, such as Azure DevOps, to manage your pipeline metadata and deployments. You can use CI/CD to quickly restore operations to an instance in another region. If a region is unavailable, you can provision a new data factory manually or through automation. After the new data factory is created, you can restore your pipelines, datasets, and linked services JSON from the existing Git repository. For more information, seeBusiness continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) for Data Factory and Azure Synapse Analytics pipelines.
Use a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) system, such as Azure DevOps, to manage your pipeline metadata and deployments. You can use CI/CD to quickly restore operations to an instance in another region. If a region is unavailable, you can provision a new data factory manually or through automation. After the new data factory is created, you can restore your pipelines, datasets, and linked services JSON from the existing Git repository. For more information, seeBusiness continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) for Data Factory and Azure Synapse Analytics pipelines.
Depending on the IR that you use, there might be other considerations.
An Azure-SSIS IRuses a database stored in Azure SQL Database or Azure SQL Managed Instance. You can configure geo-replication or a failover group for this database. The Azure-SSIS database is located in a primary Azure region that has read-write access. The database is continuously replicated to a secondary region that has read-only access. If the primary region is unavailable, a failover triggers, which causes the primary and secondary databases to swap roles.You can also configure a dual standby Azure SSIS IR pair that works in sync with an Azure SQL Database or SQL Managed Instance failover group.For more information, seeConfigure an Azure-SSIS IR for BCDR.
An Azure-SSIS IRuses a database stored in Azure SQL Database or Azure SQL Managed Instance. You can configure geo-replication or a failover group for this database. The Azure-SSIS database is located in a primary Azure region that has read-write access. The database is continuously replicated to a secondary region that has read-only access. If the primary region is unavailable, a failover triggers, which causes the primary and secondary databases to swap roles.
You can also configure a dual standby Azure SSIS IR pair that works in sync with an Azure SQL Database or SQL Managed Instance failover group.
For more information, seeConfigure an Azure-SSIS IR for BCDR.
A SHIRruns on infrastructure that you manage. If the SHIR is deployed to an Azure VM, you can useAzure Site Recoveryto triggerVM failoverto another region.
A SHIRruns on infrastructure that you manage. If the SHIR is deployed to an Azure VM, you can useAzure Site Recoveryto triggerVM failoverto another region.
Backup and restore
Data Factory supports CI/CD through source control integration, so that you can back up the metadata of a data factory instance. CI/CD pipelines deploy this metadata seamlessly into a new environment. For more information, seeCI/CD in Data Factory.
Service-level agreement
The service-level agreement (SLA) for Azure Data Factory describes the expected availability of the service. This agreement also describes the conditions to meet for achieving this expectation. To understand these conditions, make sure that you review theService Level Agreements (SLA) for Online Services.
Related content
Reliability in Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources