Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Traffic analytics overview
Article
2025-04-14
27 contributors
In this article
Traffic analytics is a cloud-based solution that provides visibility into user and application activity in your cloud networks. Specifically, traffic analytics analyzes Azure Network Watcher flow logs to provide insights into traffic flow in your Azure cloud. With traffic analytics, you can:
Visualize network activity across your Azure subscriptions.
Visualize network activity across your Azure subscriptions.
Identify hot spots.
Identify hot spots.
Secure your network by using information about the following components to identify threats:Open portsApplications that attempt to access the internetVirtual machines (VMs) that connect to rogue networks
Secure your network by using information about the following components to identify threats:
Open ports
Applications that attempt to access the internet
Virtual machines (VMs) that connect to rogue networks
Optimize your network deployment for performance and capacity by understanding traffic flow patterns across Azure regions and the internet.
Optimize your network deployment for performance and capacity by understanding traffic flow patterns across Azure regions and the internet.
Pinpoint network misconfigurations that can lead to failed connections in your network.
Pinpoint network misconfigurations that can lead to failed connections in your network.
Why traffic analytics?
It's vital to monitor, manage, and know your own network for uncompromised security, compliance, and performance. Knowing your own environment is of paramount importance to protect and optimize it. You often need to know the current state of the network, including the following information:
Who is connecting to the network?
Where are they connecting from?
Which ports are open to the internet?
What's the expected network behavior?
Is there any irregular network behavior?
Are there any sudden rises in traffic?
Cloud networks are different from on-premises enterprise networks. In on-premises networks, routers and switches support NetFlow and other, equivalent protocols. You can use these devices to collect data about IP network traffic as it enters or exits a network interface. By analyzing traffic flow data, you can build an analysis of network traffic flow and volume.
With Azure virtual networks, flow logs collect data about the network. These logs provide information about ingress and egress IP traffic through a network security group or a virtual network. Traffic analytics analyzes raw flow logs and combines the log data with intelligence about security, topology, and geography. Traffic analytics then provides you with insights into traffic flow in your environment.
Traffic analytics provides the following information:
Most-communicating hosts
Most-communicating application protocols
Most-conversing host pairs
Allowed and blocked traffic
Inbound and outbound traffic
Open internet ports
Most-blocking rules
Traffic distribution per Azure datacenter, virtual network, subnets, or rogue network
Key components
To use traffic analytics, you need the following components:
Network Watcher: A regional service that you can use to monitor and diagnose conditions at a network-scenario level in Azure. You can use Network Watcher to turn flow logs on and off in your subscription. For more information, seeWhat is Azure Network Watcher?andEnable or disable Azure Network Watcher.
Network Watcher: A regional service that you can use to monitor and diagnose conditions at a network-scenario level in Azure. You can use Network Watcher to turn flow logs on and off in your subscription. For more information, seeWhat is Azure Network Watcher?andEnable or disable Azure Network Watcher.
Log Analytics: A tool in the Azure portal that you use to work with Azure Monitor Logs data. Azure Monitor Logs is an Azure service that collects monitoring data and stores the data in a central repository. This data can include events, performance data, or custom data that's provided through the Azure API. After this data is collected, it's available for alerting, analysis, and export. Monitoring applications such as network performance monitor and traffic analytics use Azure Monitor Logs as a foundation. For more information, seeAzure Monitor Logs. Log Analytics provides a way to edit and run queries on logs. You can also use this tool to analyze query results. For more information, seeOverview of Log Analytics in Azure Monitor.
Log Analytics: A tool in the Azure portal that you use to work with Azure Monitor Logs data. Azure Monitor Logs is an Azure service that collects monitoring data and stores the data in a central repository. This data can include events, performance data, or custom data that's provided through the Azure API. After this data is collected, it's available for alerting, analysis, and export. Monitoring applications such as network performance monitor and traffic analytics use Azure Monitor Logs as a foundation. For more information, seeAzure Monitor Logs. Log Analytics provides a way to edit and run queries on logs. You can also use this tool to analyze query results. For more information, seeOverview of Log Analytics in Azure Monitor.
Log Analytics workspace: The environment that stores Azure Monitor log data that pertains to an Azure account. For more information about Log Analytics workspaces, seeOverview of Log Analytics workspaceandCreate a Log Analytics workspace.
Log Analytics workspace: The environment that stores Azure Monitor log data that pertains to an Azure account. For more information about Log Analytics workspaces, seeOverview of Log Analytics workspaceandCreate a Log Analytics workspace.
Additionally, you need a network security group enabled for flow logging if you're using traffic analytics to analyzenetwork security group flow logsor a virtual network enabled for flow logging if you're using traffic analytics to analyzevirtual network flow logs:Network security group (NSG): A resource that contains a list of security rules that allow or deny network traffic to or from resources that are connected to an Azure virtual network. Network security groups can be associated with subnets, network interfaces (NICs) that are attached to VMs (Resource Manager), or individual VMs (classic). For more information, seeNetwork security group overview.Network security group flow logs: Recorded information about ingress and egress IP traffic through a network security group. Network security group flow logs are written in JSON format and include:Outbound and inbound flows on a per rule basis.The NIC that the flow applies to.Information about the flow, such as the source and destination IP addresses, the source and destination ports, and the protocol.The status of the traffic, such as allowed or denied.For more information, seeNetwork security group flow logs overviewandCreate a network security group flow log.Virtual network (VNet): A resource that enables many types of Azure resources to securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks. For more information, seeVirtual network overview.Virtual network flow logs: Recorded information about ingress and egress IP traffic through a virtual network. Virtual network flow logs are written in JSON format and include:Outbound and inbound flows.Information about the flow, such as the source and destination IP addresses, the source and destination ports, and the protocol.The status of the traffic, such as allowed or denied.For more information, seeVirtual network flow logs overviewandCreate a virtual network flow log. To learn about the differences between network security group flow logs and virtual network flow logs, seeVirtual network flow logs compared to network security group flow logs.
Additionally, you need a network security group enabled for flow logging if you're using traffic analytics to analyzenetwork security group flow logsor a virtual network enabled for flow logging if you're using traffic analytics to analyzevirtual network flow logs:
Network security group (NSG): A resource that contains a list of security rules that allow or deny network traffic to or from resources that are connected to an Azure virtual network. Network security groups can be associated with subnets, network interfaces (NICs) that are attached to VMs (Resource Manager), or individual VMs (classic). For more information, seeNetwork security group overview.
Network security group (NSG): A resource that contains a list of security rules that allow or deny network traffic to or from resources that are connected to an Azure virtual network. Network security groups can be associated with subnets, network interfaces (NICs) that are attached to VMs (Resource Manager), or individual VMs (classic). For more information, seeNetwork security group overview.
Network security group flow logs: Recorded information about ingress and egress IP traffic through a network security group. Network security group flow logs are written in JSON format and include:Outbound and inbound flows on a per rule basis.The NIC that the flow applies to.Information about the flow, such as the source and destination IP addresses, the source and destination ports, and the protocol.The status of the traffic, such as allowed or denied.For more information, seeNetwork security group flow logs overviewandCreate a network security group flow log.
Network security group flow logs: Recorded information about ingress and egress IP traffic through a network security group. Network security group flow logs are written in JSON format and include:
Outbound and inbound flows on a per rule basis.
The NIC that the flow applies to.
Information about the flow, such as the source and destination IP addresses, the source and destination ports, and the protocol.
The status of the traffic, such as allowed or denied.
For more information, seeNetwork security group flow logs overviewandCreate a network security group flow log.
Virtual network (VNet): A resource that enables many types of Azure resources to securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks. For more information, seeVirtual network overview.
Virtual network (VNet): A resource that enables many types of Azure resources to securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks. For more information, seeVirtual network overview.
Virtual network flow logs: Recorded information about ingress and egress IP traffic through a virtual network. Virtual network flow logs are written in JSON format and include:Outbound and inbound flows.Information about the flow, such as the source and destination IP addresses, the source and destination ports, and the protocol.The status of the traffic, such as allowed or denied.For more information, seeVirtual network flow logs overviewandCreate a virtual network flow log. To learn about the differences between network security group flow logs and virtual network flow logs, seeVirtual network flow logs compared to network security group flow logs.
Virtual network flow logs: Recorded information about ingress and egress IP traffic through a virtual network. Virtual network flow logs are written in JSON format and include:
Outbound and inbound flows.
Information about the flow, such as the source and destination IP addresses, the source and destination ports, and the protocol.
The status of the traffic, such as allowed or denied.
For more information, seeVirtual network flow logs overviewandCreate a virtual network flow log. To learn about the differences between network security group flow logs and virtual network flow logs, seeVirtual network flow logs compared to network security group flow logs.
Note
To use Traffic analytics, you must have the required permissions. For more information, seeTraffic analytics permissions.
How traffic analytics works
Traffic analytics examines raw flow logs. It then reduces the log volume by aggregating flows that have a common source IP address, destination IP address, destination port, and protocol.
An example might involve Host 1 at IP address 10.10.10.10 and Host 2 at IP address 10.10.20.10. Suppose these two hosts communicate 100 times over a period of one hour. The raw flow log has 100 entries in this case. If these hosts use the HTTP protocol on port 80 for each of those 100 interactions, the reduced log has one entry. That entry states that Host 1 and Host 2 communicated 100 times over a period of one hour by using the HTTP protocol on port 80.
Reduced logs are enhanced with geography, security, and topology information and then stored in a Log Analytics workspace. The following diagram shows the data flow:

Availability
The following tables list the supported regions where you can enable traffic analytics for your flow logs and the Log Analytics workspaces that you can use.
North America / South America
Europe
Australia / Asia / Pacific
Middle East / Africa
Azure Government
Note
If flow logs are supported in a region, but Log Analytics workspace isn't supported in that region for traffic analytics, you can use a Log Analytics workspace from any other supported region. In this case, there won't be any additional cross-region data transfer charges for using a Log Analytics workspace from another region.
Pricing
For pricing details, seeNetwork Watcher pricingandAzure Monitor pricing.
Traffic analytics FAQ
To get answers to the most frequently asked questions about traffic analytics, seeTraffic analytics FAQ.
Related content
To learn how to use traffic analytics, seeUsage scenarios.
To understand the schema and processing details of traffic analytics, seeSchema and data aggregation in Traffic Analytics.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources