Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Skills for extra processing during indexing (Azure AI Search)
Article
2025-03-11
8 contributors
In this article
This article describes the skills in Azure AI Search that you can include in askillsetto access external processing.
Askillis an atomic operation that transforms content in some way. Often, it's an operation that recognizes or extracts text, but it can also be a utility skill that reshapes the enrichments that are already created. Typically, the output is either text-based so that it can be used infull text search, or vectors used invector search.
Skills are organized into categories:
Abuilt-in skillwraps API calls to an Azure AI resource, where the inputs, outputs, and processing steps are well understood. For skills that call an Azure AI resource, the connection is made over the internal network. For skills that call Azure OpenAI, you provide the connection information that the search service uses to connect to the resource. A small quantity of processing is non-billable, but at larger volumes, processing is billable. Built-in skills are based on pretrained models from Microsoft, which means you can't train the model using your own training data.
Abuilt-in skillwraps API calls to an Azure AI resource, where the inputs, outputs, and processing steps are well understood. For skills that call an Azure AI resource, the connection is made over the internal network. For skills that call Azure OpenAI, you provide the connection information that the search service uses to connect to the resource. A small quantity of processing is non-billable, but at larger volumes, processing is billable. Built-in skills are based on pretrained models from Microsoft, which means you can't train the model using your own training data.
Acustom skillprovides custom code that executes externally to the search service. It's accessed through a URI. Custom code is often made available through an Azure function app. To attach an open-source or third-party vectorization model, use a custom skill.
Acustom skillprovides custom code that executes externally to the search service. It's accessed through a URI. Custom code is often made available through an Azure function app. To attach an open-source or third-party vectorization model, use a custom skill.
Autilityis internal to Azure AI Search, with no dependency on external resources or outbound connections. Most utilities are non-billable.
Autilityis internal to Azure AI Search, with no dependency on external resources or outbound connections. Most utilities are non-billable.
Azure AI resource skills
Skills that call the Azure AI are billed at the pay-as-you-go rate when youattach an AI service resource.
"Person"
"Location"
"Organization"
"Quantity"
"DateTime"
"URL"
"Email"
"PersonType"
"Event"
"Product"
"Skill"
"Address"
"Phone Number"
"IP Address"
Azure OpenAI skills
Skills that call models deployed on Azure OpenAI are billed at the pay-as-you-go rate.
Utility skills
Skills that execute only on Azure AI Search, iterate mostly on nodes in the enrichment cache, and are mostly non-billable.
Custom skills
Custom skillswrap external code that you design, develop, and deploy to the web. You can then call the module from within a skillset as a custom skill.
For guidance on creating a custom skill, seeDefine a custom interfaceandExample: Creating a custom skill for AI enrichment.
See also
How to define a skillset
Custom Skills interface definition
Tutorial: Enriched indexing with AI
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources