Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Install Arc agents at scale for Arc-enabled SCVMM VMs
Article
2025-04-09
5 contributors
In this article
In this article, you learn how to install Azure connected machine agents at scale for SCVMM VMs which is a prerequisite  to use Azure services for securing, patching, monitoring your VMs and leverage on Azure Arc benefits.
Important
We recommend maintaining the SCVMM management server and the SCVMM console in the same Long-Term Servicing Channel (LTSC) and Update Rollup (UR) version.
Note
This article is applicable only if you are running:
SCVMM 2025 or later versions of SCVMM server or console
SCVMM 2022 UR1 or later versions of SCVMM server or console
SCVMM 2019 UR5 or later versions of SCVMM server or console
VMs running Windows Server 2012 R2, 2016, 2019, 2022, 2025, Windows 10, and Windows 11For other SCVMM versions, Linux VMs or Windows VMs running WS 2012 or earlier,install Arc agents through the script.
Prerequisites
Ensure the following before you install Arc agents at scale for SCVMM VMs:
The Azure Arc resource bridge must be deployed connecting your SCVMM managed environment to Azure and it must be in aRunningstate.
The SCVMM management server must be in aConnectedstate.
The user must have permissions listed in Azure Arc SCVMM Contributor build-in role.
All the target machines are:Powered on.Running asupported operating system.Able to connect through the firewall to communicate over the internet andthese URLsaren't blocked.
Powered on.
Running asupported operating system.
Able to connect through the firewall to communicate over the internet andthese URLsaren't blocked.
Install Arc agents at scale from portal
An admin can install agents for multiple machines from the Azure portal if the machines share the same administrator credentials.
Navigate to theSCVMM management serversblade onAzure Arc Center, and select the SCVMM management server resource.
Navigate to theSCVMM management serversblade onAzure Arc Center, and select the SCVMM management server resource.
Select the machines you want to onboard to Arc at-scale and choose theEnable in Azureoption.
Select the machines you want to onboard to Arc at-scale and choose theEnable in Azureoption.
SelectEnable guest managementcheckbox to install Arc agents on the selected machine.
SelectEnable guest managementcheckbox to install Arc agents on the selected machine.
Based on your organization’s network policies, choose the connectivity method for the Arc agent running in your SCVMM VM to connect to Azure. The available options are Public endpoint, Proxy server and Private endpoint.If you want to connect the Arc agent via proxy, provide the proxy server details.If you want to connect Arc agent via private endpoint, follow thesestepsto set up Azure private link and provide the same details.NotePrivate endpoint connectivity is only available for Arc agent to Azure communications. For Arc resource bridge to Azure connectivity, Azure Private link isn't supported.
Based on your organization’s network policies, choose the connectivity method for the Arc agent running in your SCVMM VM to connect to Azure. The available options are Public endpoint, Proxy server and Private endpoint.
If you want to connect the Arc agent via proxy, provide the proxy server details.
If you want to connect Arc agent via private endpoint, follow thesestepsto set up Azure private link and provide the same details.
Note
Private endpoint connectivity is only available for Arc agent to Azure communications. For Arc resource bridge to Azure connectivity, Azure Private link isn't supported.
Provide the administrator username and password for the machine. For Windows VMs, the account must be part of the local administrator group; and for Linux VM, it must be a root account.
Provide the administrator username and password for the machine. For Windows VMs, the account must be part of the local administrator group; and for Linux VM, it must be a root account.
SelectEnableto start the installation of the Arc agent in the specified machines. Once installation is complete, the Guest management column will switch to Enabled for the machines with Arc agent running. You can start using Azure services for these machines.
SelectEnableto start the installation of the Arc agent in the specified machines. Once installation is complete, the Guest management column will switch to Enabled for the machines with Arc agent running. You can start using Azure services for these machines.
Apart from the portal experience, Azure Arc-enabled SCVMM supports at-scale Arc agent installation through Azure CLI, PowerShell, REST APIs, SDKs, and Infrastructure-as-Code mechanisms. Refer to the Reference section in our documentation to know more.
Next steps
Manage VM extensions to use Azure management services for your SCVMM VMs.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources