Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of managed disk encryption options
Article
2024-08-22
7 contributors
In this article
There are several types of encryption available for your managed disks, including Azure Disk Encryption (ADE), Server-Side Encryption (SSE), and encryption at host.
Azure Disk Storage Server-Side Encryption(also referred to as encryption-at-rest or Azure Storage encryption) is always enabled and automatically encrypts data stored on Azure managed disks (OS and data disks) when persisting on the Storage Clusters. When configured with a Disk Encryption Set (DES), it supports customer-managed keys as well. It doesn't encrypt temp disks or disk caches. For full details, seeServer-side encryption of Azure Disk Storage.
Azure Disk Storage Server-Side Encryption(also referred to as encryption-at-rest or Azure Storage encryption) is always enabled and automatically encrypts data stored on Azure managed disks (OS and data disks) when persisting on the Storage Clusters. When configured with a Disk Encryption Set (DES), it supports customer-managed keys as well. It doesn't encrypt temp disks or disk caches. For full details, seeServer-side encryption of Azure Disk Storage.
Encryption at hostis a Virtual Machine option that enhances Azure Disk Storage Server-Side Encryption to ensure that all temp disks and disk caches are encrypted at rest and flow encrypted to the Storage clusters. For full details, seeEncryption at host - End-to-end encryption for your VM data.
Encryption at hostis a Virtual Machine option that enhances Azure Disk Storage Server-Side Encryption to ensure that all temp disks and disk caches are encrypted at rest and flow encrypted to the Storage clusters. For full details, seeEncryption at host - End-to-end encryption for your VM data.
Azure Disk Encryptionhelps protect and safeguard your data to meet your organizational security and compliance commitments. ADE encrypts the OS and data disks of Azure virtual machines (VMs) inside your VMs by using theDM-Cryptfeature of Linux or theBitLockerfeature of Windows. ADE is integrated with Azure Key Vault to help you control and manage the disk encryption keys and secrets, with the option to encrypt with a key encryption key (KEK).  For full details, seeAzure Disk Encryption for Linux VMsorAzure Disk Encryption for Windows VMs.
Azure Disk Encryptionhelps protect and safeguard your data to meet your organizational security and compliance commitments. ADE encrypts the OS and data disks of Azure virtual machines (VMs) inside your VMs by using theDM-Cryptfeature of Linux or theBitLockerfeature of Windows. ADE is integrated with Azure Key Vault to help you control and manage the disk encryption keys and secrets, with the option to encrypt with a key encryption key (KEK).  For full details, seeAzure Disk Encryption for Linux VMsorAzure Disk Encryption for Windows VMs.
Confidential disk encryptionbinds disk encryption keys to the virtual machine's TPM and makes the protected disk content accessible only to the VM. The TPM and VM guest state is always encrypted in attested code using keys released by a secure protocol that bypasses the hypervisor and host operating system. Currently only available for the OS disk;temp disk support is in preview. Encryption at host may be used for other disks on a Confidential VM in addition to Confidential Disk Encryption. For full details, seeDCasv5 and ECasv5 series confidential VMs.
Confidential disk encryptionbinds disk encryption keys to the virtual machine's TPM and makes the protected disk content accessible only to the VM. The TPM and VM guest state is always encrypted in attested code using keys released by a secure protocol that bypasses the hypervisor and host operating system. Currently only available for the OS disk;temp disk support is in preview. Encryption at host may be used for other disks on a Confidential VM in addition to Confidential Disk Encryption. For full details, seeDCasv5 and ECasv5 series confidential VMs.
Encryption is part of a layered approach to security and should be used with other recommendations to secure Virtual Machines and their disks. For full details, seeSecurity recommendations for virtual machines in AzureandRestrict import/export access to managed disks.
Comparison
Here's a comparison of Disk Storage SSE, ADE, encryption at host, and Confidential disk encryption.
Important
For Confidential disk encryption, Microsoft Defender for Cloud does not currently have a recommendation that is applicable.
* Microsoft Defender for Cloud has the following disk encryption recommendations:
Virtual machines and virtual machine scale sets should have encryption at host enabled(Only detects Encryption at Host)
Virtual machines should encrypt temp disks, caches, and data flows between Compute and Storage resources(Only detects Azure Disk Encryption)
Windows virtual machines should enable Azure Disk Encryption or EncryptionAtHost(Detects both Azure Disk Encryption and EncryptionAtHost)
Linux virtual machines should enable Azure Disk Encryption or EncryptionAtHost(Detects both Azure Disk Encryption and EncryptionAtHost)
Next steps
Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs
Azure Disk Encryption for Windows VMs
Server-side encryption of Azure Disk Storage
Encryption at host
DCasv5 and ECasv5 series confidential VMs
Azure Security Fundamentals - Azure encryption overview
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources