Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
OS backup and restore
Article
2023-02-10
3 contributors
In this article
This article walks through the steps to do an operating system (OS) file-level backup and restore. The procedure differs depending on parameters like Type I or Type II, Revision 3 or above, location, and so on. Check with Microsoft operations to get the values for these parameters for your resources.
OS backup and restore for Type II SKUs of Revision 3 stamps
Refer this documentation:OS backup and restore for Type II SKUs of Revision 3 stamps
OS backup and restore for all other SKUs
The information below describes the steps to do an operating system file-level backup and restore for all SKUs of all Revisions exceptType II  SKUsof the HANA Large Instances of Revision 3.
Take a manual backup
Get the latest Microsoft Snapshot Tools for SAP HANA as explained in a series of articles starting withWhat is Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool. Configure and test them as described in these articles:
Configure Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Test Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
This review will prepare you to run backup regularly viacrontabas described inBack up using Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool.
crontab
For more information, see these references:
Install Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Configure Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Test Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Back up using Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Obtain details using Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Delete using Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Restore using Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Disaster recovery using Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Troubleshoot Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Tips and tricks for using Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Restore a backup
The restore operation cannot be done from the OS itself. You'll need to raise a support ticket with Microsoft operations. The restore operation requires the HANA Large Instance (HLI) to be in powered off state, so schedule accordingly.
Managed OS snapshots
Azure can automatically take OS backups for your HLI resources. These backups are taken once daily, and Azure keeps up to the latest three such backups. These backups are enabled by default for all customers in the following regions:
West US
Australia East
Australia Southeast
South Central US
East US 2
This facility is partially available in the following regions:
East US
North Europe
West Europe
The frequency or retention period of the backups taken by this facility can't be altered. If a different OS backup strategy is needed for your HLI resources, you may opt out of this facility by raising a support ticket with Microsoft operations. Then configure Microsoft Snapshot Tools for SAP HANA to take OS backups by using the instructions provided earlier in the section,Take a manual backup.
Next steps
Learn how to enable kdump for HANA Large Instances.
kdump for SAP HANA on Azure Large Instances
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources