Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure security logging and auditing
Article
2024-09-29
11 contributors
In this article
Azure provides a wide array of configurable security auditing and logging options to help you identify gaps in your security policies and mechanisms. This article discusses generating, collecting, and analyzing security logs from services hosted on Azure.
Note
Certain recommendations in this article might result in increased data, network, or compute resource usage, and increase your license or subscription costs.
Types of logs in Azure
Cloud applications are complex with many moving parts. Logging data can provide insights about your applications and help you:
Troubleshoot past problems or prevent potential ones
Improve application performance or maintainability
Automate actions that would otherwise require manual intervention
Azure logs are categorized into the following types:
Control/management logsprovide information about Azure Resource Manager CREATE, UPDATE, and DELETE operations. For more information, seeAzure activity logs.
Control/management logsprovide information about Azure Resource Manager CREATE, UPDATE, and DELETE operations. For more information, seeAzure activity logs.
Data plane logsprovide information about events raised as part of Azure resource usage. Examples of this type of log are the Windows event system, security, and application logs in a virtual machine (VM) and thediagnostics logsthat are configured through Azure Monitor.
Data plane logsprovide information about events raised as part of Azure resource usage. Examples of this type of log are the Windows event system, security, and application logs in a virtual machine (VM) and thediagnostics logsthat are configured through Azure Monitor.
Processed eventsprovide information about analyzed events/alerts that have been processed on your behalf. Examples of this type areMicrosoft Defender for Cloud alertswhereMicrosoft Defender for Cloudhas processed and analyzed your subscription and provides concise security alerts.
Processed eventsprovide information about analyzed events/alerts that have been processed on your behalf. Examples of this type areMicrosoft Defender for Cloud alertswhereMicrosoft Defender for Cloudhas processed and analyzed your subscription and provides concise security alerts.
The following table lists the most important types of logs available in Azure:
Log integration with on-premises SIEM systems
Integrating Defender for Cloud alertsdiscusses how to sync Defender for Cloud alerts, virtual machine security events collected by Azure diagnostics logs, and Azure audit logs with your Azure Monitor logs or SIEM solution.
Next steps
Auditing and logging: Protect data by maintaining visibility and responding quickly to timely security alerts.
Auditing and logging: Protect data by maintaining visibility and responding quickly to timely security alerts.
Configure audit settings for a site collection: If you're a site collection administrator, retrieve the history of individual users' actions and the history of actions taken during a particular date range.
Configure audit settings for a site collection: If you're a site collection administrator, retrieve the history of individual users' actions and the history of actions taken during a particular date range.
Search the audit log in the Microsoft Defender Portal: Use the Microsoft Defender Portal to search the unified audit log and view user and administrator activity in your organization.
Search the audit log in the Microsoft Defender Portal: Use the Microsoft Defender Portal to search the unified audit log and view user and administrator activity in your organization.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources