Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Plan the Azure VMware Solution deployment
Article
2025-01-08
10 contributors
In this article
Planning your Azure VMware Solution deployment is crucial for creating a successful production-ready environment for virtual machines (VMs) and migration. During the planning process, you identify and gather the necessary information for your deployment. Be sure to document the information you collect for easy reference during the deployment. A successful deployment results in a production-ready environment for creating VMs and migration.
In this tutorial, learn how to complete the following tasks:
Identify the Azure subscription, resource group, region, and resource name
Identify the size hosts and determine the number of clusters and hosts
Request a host quota for an eligible Azure plan
Identify the /22 CIDR IP segment for private cloud management
Identify a single network segment
Define the virtual network gateway
Define VMware HCX network segments
After you're finished, follow the recommendedNext stepsat the end of this article to continue with this getting started guide.
Identify the subscription
Identify the subscription you plan to use to deploy Azure VMware Solution. You can create a new subscription or use an existing one.
Note
The subscription must be associated with a Microsoft Enterprise Agreement (EA), a Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) Azure plan, or a Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA). For more information, seeEligibility criteria.
Identify the resource group
Identify the resource group you want to use for your Azure VMware Solution. Generally, a resource group is created specifically for Azure VMware Solution, but you can use an existing resource group.
Identify the region or location
Identify theregionyou want Azure VMware Solution deployed.
Define the resource name
The resource name is a friendly and descriptive name for your Azure VMware Solution private cloud, for example,MyPrivateCloud.
Important
The name must not exceed 40 characters. If the name exceeds this limit, you won't be able to create public IP addresses for use with the private cloud.
Identify the size hosts
Identify the size hosts that you want to use when deploying Azure VMware Solution.
Azure VMware Solution clusters are based on a hyperconverged infrastructure. The following table shows the CPU, memory, disk, and network specifications of the host.
An Azure VMware Solution cluster requires a minimum number of three hosts. You can use hosts of the same type only in a single Azure VMware Solution private cloud. Hosts used to build or scale clusters come from an isolated pool of hosts. Those hosts passed hardware tests and had all data securely deleted before being added to a cluster.
All of the preceding host types have 100-Gbps network interface throughput.
*Details are available via the Azure pricing calculator.
**AV64 prerequisite: An Azure VMware Solution private cloud deployed with AV36, AV36P, or AV52 is required before adding AV64.
***Raw is based onInternational Standard of Units (SI)reported by disk manufacturers. Example: 1 TB Raw = 1000000000000 bytes. Space calculated by a computer in binary (1 TB binary = 1099511627776 bytes binary) equals 931.3 gigabytes converted from the raw decimal.
Determine the number of clusters and hosts
The first Azure VMware Solution deployment you do consists of a private cloud containing a single cluster. You need to define the number of hosts you want to deploy to the first cluster for your deployment.
For each private cloud created, there's one vSAN cluster by default. You can add, delete, and scale clusters. The minimum number of hosts per cluster and the initial deployment is three.
You use vCenter Server and NSX Manager to manage most aspects of cluster configuration and operation. All local storage of each host in a cluster is under the control of VMware vSAN.
Azure VMware Solution configures each cluster for n+1 availability through vSphere High Availability percentage-based admission control to protect workloads from the failure of a single node.Cluster-1of each Azure VMware Solution private cloud has a resource pool based on vSphere Distributed Resource Scheduler (MGMT-ResourcePool). The pool is configured for the management and control plane components (vCenter Server, NSX Manager cluster, NSX Edges, HCX Manager add-on, Site Recovery Manager add-on, and vSphere Replication add-on).
Cluster-1
MGMT-ResourcePool
MGMT-ResourcePoolis configured to reserve 46 GHz CPU and 171.88-GB memory, which you can't change. For a three-node cluster, two nodes are dedicated to customer workloads, excluding theMGMT-ResourcePoolCPU and memory resources reserved for management and control. One node of resources is held in reserve to protect against node failure. Azure VMware Solution stretched clusters use an admission control policy that's based on n+2 availability vSphere High Availability percentages.
MGMT-ResourcePool
MGMT-ResourcePool
The Azure VMware Solution management and control plane have the following resource requirements. They must be accounted for during solution sizing of astandard private cloud.
The Azure VMware Solution management and control plane have the following resource requirements that you must account for during solution sizing of astretched clusters private cloud. VMware Site Recovery Manager isn't included in the table because currently it isn't supported. The vSAN Witness appliance isn't included in the table either. Microsoft manages it in the third availability zone.
These resource requirements apply to only the first cluster deployed in an Azure VMware Solution private cloud. Subsequent clusters need to account for only vSphere Cluster Service, ESXi resource requirements, and vSAN system usage in solution sizing.
The virtual applianceTypical raw vSAN datastore usagevalues account for the space occupied by virtual machine files, including configuration and log files, snapshots, virtual disks, and swap files.
The VMware ESXi nodes have compute usage values that account for the vSphere VMkernel hypervisor overhead, vSAN overhead, and NSX distributed router, firewall, and bridging overhead. These estimates are for a standard three-cluster configuration. The storage requirements are listed as not applicable (N/A) because a boot volume separate from the vSAN datastore is used.
The VMware vSAN system usage storage overhead accounts for vSAN performance management objects, vSAN file system overhead, vSAN checksum overhead, and vSAN deduplication and compression overhead. To view this consumption, selectMonitor>vSAN>Capacityfor the vSphere cluster in the vSphere client.
The VMware HCX and VMware Site Recovery Manager resource requirements are optional add-ons to Azure VMware Solution. Discount these requirements in the solution sizing if they aren't being used.
The VMware Site Recovery Manager add-on has the option of configuring multiple VMware vSphere Replication Server appliances. The previous table assumes that one vSphere Replication Server appliance is used.
Sizing a solution is an estimate. Validate the sizing calculations from the design phase during the testing phase of a project. You need to ensure that the solution is sized correctly for the application workload.
Tip
You can always extend the cluster and add more clusters later if you need to go beyond the initial deployment number.
Note
To learn about the limits for the number of hosts per cluster, the number of clusters per private cloud, and the number of hosts per private cloud, checkAzure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints.
Request a host quota
Request a host quota early in the planning process to ensure a smooth deployment of your Azure VMware Solution private cloud. Before making a request, identify the Azure subscription, resource group, and region. Determine the size of hosts, number of clusters, and hosts you need.
The support team takes up to five business days to confirm your request and allocate your hosts.
EA customers
CSP customers
Define the IP address segment for private cloud management
Azure VMware Solution requires a /22 CIDR network, such as10.0.0.0/22. This address space is divided into smaller network segments (subnets) for Azure VMware Solution management segments including vCenter Server, VMware HCX, NSX-T Data Center, and vMotion functionality. The following diagram shows Azure VMware Solution management IP address segments.
10.0.0.0/22

Important
The /22 CIDR network address block shouldn't overlap with any existing network segment you already have on-premises or in Azure. For details of how the /22 CIDR network is broken down per private cloud, seeRouting and subnet considerations.
Define the IP address segment for VM workloads
In a VMware vSphere environment, VMs must connect to a network segment. As Azure VMware Solution production deployment expands, you often see a combination of L2 extended segments from on-premises and local NSX-T Data Center network segments.
For the initial deployment, identify a single network segment (IP network), for example,10.0.4.0/24. This network segment is used primarily for testing purposes during the initial deployment.  The address block shouldn't overlap with any network segments on-premises or within Azure and shouldn't be within the /22 network segment already defined.
10.0.4.0/24

Define the virtual network gateway
Azure VMware Solution requires an Azure Virtual Network and an ExpressRoute circuit. Decide whether to use anexistingornewExpressRoute virtual network gateway. If you choose anewvirtual network gateway, create it after creating your private cloud. Using an existing ExpressRoute virtual network gateway is acceptable. For planning purposes, note which ExpressRoute virtual network gateway you use.

Important
You can connect to a virtual network gateway in an Azure Virtual WAN, but it is out of scope for this quick start.
Define VMware HCX network segments
VMware HCX is an application mobility platform that simplifies application migration, workload rebalancing, and business continuity across data centers and clouds. You can migrate your VMware vSphere workloads to Azure VMware Solution and other connected sites through various migration types.
VMware HCX Connector deploys a subset of virtual appliances (automated) that require multiple IP segments. When you create your network profiles, you use the IP segments. Identify the following listed items for the VMware HCX deployment, which supports a pilot or small product use case. Modify as necessary based on your migration needs.
Management network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, identify a management network for VMware HCX. Typically, it's the same management network used by your on-premises VMware vSphere cluster. At a minimum, identifytwoIPs on this network segment for VMware HCX. You might need larger numbers, depending on the scale of your deployment beyond the pilot or small use case.NoteFor large environments, create a new /26 network and present it as a port group to your on-premises VMware vSphere cluster instead of using the existing management network. You can then create up to 10 service meshes and 60 network extenders (-1 per service mesh). You can stretcheightnetworks per network extender by using Azure VMware Solution private clouds.
Management network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, identify a management network for VMware HCX. Typically, it's the same management network used by your on-premises VMware vSphere cluster. At a minimum, identifytwoIPs on this network segment for VMware HCX. You might need larger numbers, depending on the scale of your deployment beyond the pilot or small use case.
Note
For large environments, create a new /26 network and present it as a port group to your on-premises VMware vSphere cluster instead of using the existing management network. You can then create up to 10 service meshes and 60 network extenders (-1 per service mesh). You can stretcheightnetworks per network extender by using Azure VMware Solution private clouds.
Uplink network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, identify an Uplink network for VMware HCX. Use the same network you plan to use for the Management network.
Uplink network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, identify an Uplink network for VMware HCX. Use the same network you plan to use for the Management network.
vMotion network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, identify a vMotion network for VMware HCX.  Typically, it's the same network used for vMotion by your on-premises VMware vSphere cluster.  At a minimum, identifytwoIPs on this network segment for VMware HCX. You might need larger numbers, depending on the scale of your deployment beyond the pilot or small use case.You must expose the vMotion network on a distributed virtual switch or vSwitch0. If it's not, modify the environment to accommodate.NoteMany VMware vSphere environments use non-routed network segments for vMotion, which poses no problems.
vMotion network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, identify a vMotion network for VMware HCX.  Typically, it's the same network used for vMotion by your on-premises VMware vSphere cluster.  At a minimum, identifytwoIPs on this network segment for VMware HCX. You might need larger numbers, depending on the scale of your deployment beyond the pilot or small use case.
You must expose the vMotion network on a distributed virtual switch or vSwitch0. If it's not, modify the environment to accommodate.
Note
Many VMware vSphere environments use non-routed network segments for vMotion, which poses no problems.
Replication network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, define a replication network. Use the same network you're using for your Management and Uplink networks. If the on-premises cluster hosts use a dedicated Replication VMkernel network, reservetwoIP addresses in this network segment and use the Replication VMkernel network for the replication network.
Replication network:For on-premises VMware HCX deployment, define a replication network. Use the same network you're using for your Management and Uplink networks. If the on-premises cluster hosts use a dedicated Replication VMkernel network, reservetwoIP addresses in this network segment and use the Replication VMkernel network for the replication network.
Determine whether to extend your networks
Optionally, you can extend network segments from on-premises to Azure VMware Solution. If you extend network segments, identify those networks now following these guidelines:
Networks must connect to avSphere Distributed Switch (vDS)in your on-premises VMware environment.
Networks that are on avSphere Standard Switchcan't be extended.
Important
These networks are extended as a final step of the configuration, not during deployment.
Next steps
Now that you gathered and documented the necessary information, continue to the next tutorial to create your Azure VMware Solution private cloud.
Deploy Azure VMware Solution
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources