Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Multiple Microsoft Sentinel workspaces in the Defender portal (preview)
Article
2025-04-03
2 contributors
Applies to: Microsoft Sentinel with Defender XDR in the Defender portal
In this article
The Defender portal allows you to connect to one primary workspace and multiple secondary workspaces for Microsoft Sentinel. In the context of this article, a workspace is a Log Analytics workspace with Microsoft Sentinel enabled.
This article primarily applies to the scenario where you  onboard Microsoft Sentinel with Microsoft Defender XDR to unify your experiences inMicrosoft's unified security operations (SecOps) platform. If you plan to use Microsoft Sentinel in the Defender portal without Defender XDR, you can manage multiple workspaces. But, the primary workspace doesn't include Defender XDR data and you won't have access to Defender XDR capabilities.
Primary and secondary workspaces
When you onboard Microsoft Sentinel, you select a primary workspace. A primary workspace's alerts are correlated with Defender XDR data. So, incidents include alerts from Microsoft Sentinel's primary workspace and Defender XDR in a unified queue.
All Defender XDR alerts and incidents are synced back to the primary workspace.
All other onboarded workspaces are considered secondary workspaces. Incidents are created based on the workspace’s data and won't include Defender XDR data.
The Defender portal keeps incident creation and alert correlation separate between the Microsoft Sentinel workspaces.
The Defender portal supports one primary workspace and up to 99 secondary workspaces per tenant for Microsoft Sentinel.
One primary workspace must always be connected to the Defender portal when using Microsoft's unified SecOps platform.
Where you have multiple Microsoft Sentinel workspaces within a Microsoft Entra ID tenant, consider using the primary workspace for your global security operations center.
Permissions to manage workspaces and view workspace data
Use one of the following roles or role combinations to manage primary and secondary workspaces:
Important
Microsoft recommends that you use roles with the fewest permissions. This helps improve security for your organization. Global Administrator is a highly privileged role that should be limited to emergency scenarios when you can't use an existing role.
After you connect Microsoft Sentinel to the Defender portal, your existing Azure role-based access control (RBAC) permissions allow you to view and work with the Microsoft Sentinel features and workspaces that you have access to.
Exception:If you've already onboarded one workspace to the Defender portal, any alerts created by using custom detections onAlertInfoandAlertEvidencetables before mid January 2025 are visible to all users.
AlertInfo
AlertEvidence
For more information, seeRoles and permissions in Microsoft Sentinel.
Primary workspace changes
After you onboard Microsoft Sentinel to the Defender portal, you can change the primary workspace. When you switch the primary workspace for Microsoft Sentinel, the Defender XDR connector is connected to the new primary and disconnected from the former one automatically.
Change the primary workspace in the Defender portal by going toSystem>Settings>Microsoft Sentinel>Workspaces.
Scope of workspace data in different views
If you have the appropriate permissions to view data from primary and secondary workspaces for Microsoft Sentinel, the workspace scope in following table applies for each capability.
Bi-directional sync for workspaces
How incident changes sync between the Azure portal and the Defender portal depends on whether it's a primary or secondary workspace.
Related content
Microsoft Defender multitenant management
Connect Microsoft Sentinel to the Microsoft Defender portal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources