Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Technology choices for Azure solutions
Article
2024-12-02
10 contributors
In this article
This article provides a list of resources that you can use to make informed decisions about the technologies that you choose for your Azure solutions. Explore comparison matrices, flowcharts, and decision trees to ensure that you find the best matches for your scenario.
Choose a compute service
The termcomputerefers to the hosting model for the computing resources that your application runs on. The following articles can help you choose the right technologies:
Choose a container option
There are many ways to build and deploy cloud-native and containerized applications in Azure. Review these articles to learn more:
Choose a hybrid option
Many organizations need a hybrid approach to analytics, automation, and services because their data is hosted both on-premises and in the cloud. The following articles can help you choose the best technologies for your scenario:
Choose an identity service
Identity solutions help you protect your data and resources. These articles can help you choose an Azure identity service:
Choose a storage service
The Azure Storage platform is the Microsoft cloud storage solution for modern data storage scenarios. Review these articles to determine the best solution for your use case:
Choose a data store
The cloud is changing the way applications are designed, including how data is processed and stored. These articles can help you choose a data solution:
Choose an analytics solution
With the exponential growth in data, organizations rely on the limitless compute, storage, and analytical power of Azure. Review these articles to learn about the available analytics solutions:
Choose an AI / machine learning service
AI is the capability of a computer to imitate intelligent human behavior. Through AI, machines can analyze images, comprehend speech, interact in natural ways, and make predictions based on data. Review these articles to learn about the AI and machine learning technology choices that are available in Azure:
Choose a networking service
These articles can help you explore the networking technologies that are available in Azure:
Choose a messaging service
Learn about the services that Azure provides to help you deliver events or messages throughout your solution:
Choose an IoT option
IoT solutions use a combination of technologies to connect devices, events, and actions through cloud applications. Review these articles to learn more about the IoT technology choices that Azure provides:
Choose a mobile development framework
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources