Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Key Vault Managed HSM?
Article
2024-08-30
17 contributors
In this article
Important
We are updating our HSM fleet to a FIPS 140-3 level 3 validated firmware for both Azure Key Vault Managed HSM and Azure Key Vault Premium. See full details atUpdating Managed HSM Firmware for Enhanced Security and Compliance.
Azure Key Vault Managed HSM (Hardware Security Module) is a fully managed, highly available, single-tenant, standards-compliant cloud service that enables you to safeguard cryptographic keys for your cloud applications, usingFIPS 140-2 Level 3validated HSMs. It is one of severalkey management solutions in Azure.
For pricing information, see Managed HSM Pools section onAzure Key Vault pricing page. For supported key types, seeAbout keys.
The term "Managed HSM instance" is synonymous with "Managed HSM pool". To avoid confusion, we use "Managed HSM instance" throughout these articles.
Note
Zero Trustis a security strategy comprising three principles: "Verify explicitly", "Use least privilege access", and "Assume breach". Data protection, including key management, supports the "use least privilege access" principle. For more information, seeWhat is Zero Trust?
Why use Managed HSM?
Fully managed, highly available, single-tenant HSM as a service
Fully managed: The service handles HSM provisioning, configuration, patching, and maintenance.
Highly available: Each HSM cluster consists of multiple HSM partitions. If the hardware fails, member partitions for your HSM cluster are automatically migrated to healthy nodes. For more information, seeManaged HSM Service Level Agreement
Single-tenant: Each Managed HSM instance is dedicated to a single customer and consists of a cluster of multiple HSM partitions. Each HSM cluster uses a separate customer-specific security domain that cryptographically isolates each customer's HSM cluster.
Access control, enhanced data protection & compliance
Centralized key management: Manage critical, high-value keys across your organization in one place. With granular per key permissions, control access to each key on the 'least privileged access' principle.
Isolated access control: Managed HSM "local RBAC" access control model allows designated HSM cluster administrators to have complete control over the HSMs that even management group, subscription, or resource group administrators cannot override.
Private endpoints: Use private endpoints to securely and privately connect to Managed HSM from your application running in a virtual network.
FIPS 140-2 Level 3 validated HSMs: Protect your data and meet compliance requirements with FIPS (Federal Information Protection Standard) 140-2 Level 3 validated HSMs. Managed HSMs use Marvell LiquidSecurity HSM adapters.
Monitor and audit: fully integrated with Azure monitor. Get complete logs of all activity via Azure Monitor. Use Azure Log Analytics for analytics and alerts.
Data residency: Managed HSM doesn't store/process customer data outside the region the customer deploys the HSM instance in.
Integrated with Azure and Microsoft PaaS/SaaS services
Generate (or import usingBYOK) keys and use them to encrypt your data at rest in Azure services such asAzure Storage,Azure SQL,Azure Information Protection, andCustomer Key for Microsoft 365. For a more complete list of Azure services that work with Managed HSM, seeData Encryption Models.
Uses same API and management interfaces as Key Vault
Easily migrate your existing applications that use a vault (a multitenant) to use Managed HSMs.
Use same application development and deployment patterns for all your applications irrespective of key management solution in use: Multitenant vaults or single-tenant Managed HSMs.
Import keys from your on-premises HSMs
Generate HSM-protected keys in your on-premises HSM and import them securely into Managed HSM.
Next steps
Key management in Azure
For technical details, seeHow Managed HSM implements key sovereignty, availability, performance, and scalability without tradeoffs
SeeQuickstart: Provision and activate a managed HSM using Azure CLIto create and activate a managed HSM
Azure Managed HSM security baseline
SeeBest Practices using Azure Key Vault Managed HSM
Managed HSM Status
Managed HSM Service Level Agreement
Managed HSM region availability
What is Zero Trust?
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources