Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Red Hat OpenShift 4.0 support policy
Article
2025-03-06
19 contributors
In this article
Certain configurations for Azure Red Hat OpenShift 4 clusters can affect your cluster's supportability. Azure Red Hat OpenShift 4 allows cluster administrators to make changes to internal cluster components, but not all changes are supported. The support policy below shares what modifications violate the policy and void support from Microsoft and Red Hat.
Note
Features marked Technology Preview in OpenShift Container Platform are not supported in Azure Red Hat OpenShift.
Cluster configuration requirements
Compute
The cluster must have a minimum of three worker nodes and three master nodes.
Don't scale the cluster workers to zero, or attempt a cluster shutdown. Deallocating or powering down any virtual machine in the cluster resource group isn't supported.
Don't create more than 250 worker nodes on a cluster. 250 is the maximum number of nodes that can be created on a cluster. SeeConfigure multiple IP addresses per ARO cluster load balancerfor more information.
If you're making use of infrastructure nodes, don't run any undesignated workloads on them as this can affect the Service Level Agreement and cluster stability. Also, it's recommended to have three infrastructure nodes; one in each availability zone. SeeDeploy infrastructure nodes in an Azure Red Hat OpenShift (ARO) clusterfor more information.
Non-RHCOS compute nodes aren't supported. For example, you can't use an RHEL compute node.
Don't attempt to remove, replace, add, or modify a master node. That's a high risk operation that can cause issues with etcd, permanent network loss, and loss of access and manageability by ARO SRE. If you feel that a master node should be replaced or removed, contact support before making any changes.
Ensure ample VM quota is available in case control plane nodes need to be scaled up by keeping at least double your current control plane vCPU count available.
Operators
All OpenShift Cluster operators must remain in a managed state. The list of cluster operators can be returned by runningoc get clusteroperators.
oc get clusteroperators
Workload management
Don't add taints that would prevent any default OpenShift components from being scheduled.
To avoid disruption resulting from cluster maintenance, in-cluster workloads should be configured with high availability practices, including but not limited to pod affinity and anti-affinity, pod disruption budgets, and adequate scaling.
Don't run extra workloads on the control plane nodes. While they can be scheduled on the control plane nodes, it causes extra resource usage and stability issues that can affect the entire cluster.
Running custom workloads (including operators installed from Operator Hub or other operators provided by Red Hat) in infrastructure nodes isn't supported.
Logging and monitoring
Don't remove or modify the default cluster Prometheus service, except to modify scheduling of the default Prometheus instance.
Don't remove or modify the default cluster Alertmanager service, default receiver, or any default alerting rules, except to add other receivers to notify external systems.
Don't remove or modify Azure Red Hat OpenShift service logging (mdsd pods).
Network and security
Unless you're using your own Network Security Group through the"bring your own" Network Security Group feature, the ARO-provided Network Security Group can't be modified or replaced. Any attempt to modify or replace it will be reverted.
All cluster virtual machines must have direct outbound internet access, at least to the Azure Resource Manager (ARM) and service logging (Geneva) endpoints. Proxying of HTTPS traffic required to run the ARO service isn't supported. Seecluster-wide proxy instructionsfor ARO proxy related configuration.
The Azure Red Hat OpenShift service accesses your cluster via Private Link Service.  Don't remove or modify service access.
Migrating from OpenShift SDN to OVN isn't supported.
Cluster management
Don't remove or modify the 'arosvc.azurecr.io' cluster pull secret.
Don't create new MachineConfig objects or modify existing ones, unless explicitly supported in the Azure Red Hat OpenShift documentation.
Don't create new KubeletConfig objects or modify existing ones, unless explicitly supported in the Azure Red Hat OpenShift documentation.
Don't set any unsupportedConfigOverrides options. Setting these options prevents minor version upgrades.
Don't place policies within your subscription or management group that prevent SREs from performing normal maintenance against the Azure Red Hat OpenShift cluster. For example, don't require tags on the Azure Red Hat OpenShift RP-managed cluster resource group.
Don't circumvent the deny assignment that is configured as part of the service, or perform administrative tasks normally prohibited by the deny assignment.
OpenShift relies on the ability to automatically tag Azure resources. If you have configured a tagging policy, don't apply more than 10 user-defined tags to resources in the managed resource group.
Incident management
An incident is an event that results in a degradation or outage Azure Red Hat OpenShift services. Incidents are raised by a customer or Customer Experience and Engagement (CEE) member through asupport case, directly by the centralized monitoring and alerting system, or directly by a member of the ARO Site Reliability Engineer (SRE) team.
Depending on the impact on the service and customer, the incident is categorized in terms of severity.
The general workflow of how a new incident is managed is described below:
An SRE first responder is alerted to a new incident and begins an initial investigation.
An SRE first responder is alerted to a new incident and begins an initial investigation.
After the initial investigation, the incident is assigned an incident lead, who coordinates the recovery efforts.
After the initial investigation, the incident is assigned an incident lead, who coordinates the recovery efforts.
The incident lead manages all communication and coordination around recovery, including any relevant notifications or support case updates.
The incident lead manages all communication and coordination around recovery, including any relevant notifications or support case updates.
The incident is recovered.
The incident is recovered.
The incident is documented and a root cause analysis (RCA) is performed within 5 business days of the incident.
The incident is documented and a root cause analysis (RCA) is performed within 5 business days of the incident.
An RCA draft document is shared with the customer within 7 business days of the incident.
An RCA draft document is shared with the customer within 7 business days of the incident.
Supported virtual machine sizes
Azure Red Hat OpenShift 4 supports node instances on the following virtual machine sizes:
Control plane nodes
*Standard_M128ms' doesn't support encryption at host
Worker nodes
*Standard_M128ms' doesn't support encryption at host
*Day-2 only (i.e., not supported as an install-time option)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources