Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How a reservation discount is applied to Azure SQL Database
Article
2025-03-26
9 contributors
In this article
Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Managed Instance
After you buy an Azure SQL Database reserved capacity, the reservation discount is automatically applied to SQL databases that match the attributes and quantity of the reservation. A reservation applies to the compute costs of your SQL Database, including the primary replica and any billable secondary replicas. You're charged for software, storage, and networking at the normal rates. You can cover the licensing costs for SQL Database withAzure Hybrid Benefit.
Reservation discounts don't apply to Azure SQL Database serverless.
For Reserved Virtual Machine Instances, seeUnderstand Azure Reserved virtual machine Instances discount.
How reservation discount is applied
A reservation discount isuse-it-or-lose-it. So, if you don't have matching resources for any hour, then you lose a reservation quantity for that hour. You can't carry forward unused reserved hours.
When you shut down a resource, the reservation discount automatically applies to another matching resource in the specified scope. If no matching resources are found in the specified scope, then the reserved hours arelost.
Stopped resources are billed and continue to use reservation hours. To use your available reservation hours with other workloads, deallocate or delete resources or scale-in other resources.
Discount applied to running SQL databases
The SQL Database reserved capacity discount is applied to running SQL databases on an hourly basis. The reservation that you buy is matched to the compute usage emitted by the running SQL databases. For SQL databases that don't run the full hour, the reservation is automatically applied to other SQL databases matching the reservation attributes. The discount can apply to SQL databases that are running concurrently. If your SQL databases don't operate for the entire hour or don't align with the reservation attributes, you don't fully utilize the hourly reservation discount.
The following examples show how the SQL Database reserved capacity discount applies depending on the number of cores you bought, and when they're running.
Scenario 1: You buy a SQL Database reserved capacity for an eight core SQL Database. You run a 16 core SQL Database that matches the rest of the attributes of the reservation. You're charged the pay-as-you-go price for eight cores of SQL Database compute usage. You get the reservation discount for one hour of eight core SQL Database compute usage.
For the rest of these examples, assume that the SQL Database reserved capacity you buy is for a 16 core SQL Database and the rest of the reservation attributes match the running SQL databases.
Scenario 2: You run two SQL databases with eight cores each for an hour. The 16 core reservation discount is applied to compute usage for both the eight cores SQL databases.
Scenario 3: You run one 16 core SQL Database from 1 pm to 1:30 pm. You run another 16 core SQL Database from 1:30 to 2 pm. Both are covered by the reservation discount.
Scenario 4: You run one 16 core SQL Database from 1 pm to 1:45 pm. You run another 16 core SQL Database from 1:30 to 2 pm. You're charged the pay-as-you-go price for the 15-minute overlap. The reservation discount applies to the compute usage for the rest of the time.
Scenario 5: You run one SQL Hyperscale database with four cores that has three secondary replicas, each having four cores. The reservation applies to compute usage for the primary and for all secondary replicas.
To understand and view the application of your Azure Reservations in billing usage reports, seeUnderstand Azure reservation usage.
Note
For databases in theGeneral Purpose service tier of Azure SQL Database, compute costs for standard compute and the zone-redundancy add-on are billed separately. Refer toreservations for zone-redundant resourcesfor more details.
Need help? Contact us
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Related content
To learn more about Azure Reservations, see the following articles:
What are Azure Reservations?
Prepay for Virtual Machines with Azure Reserved virtual machine Instances
Prepay for SQL Database compute resources with Azure SQL Database reserved capacity
Manage Azure Reservations
Understand reservation usage for your pay-as-you-go subscription
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment
Understand reservation usage for Cloud Solution Provider subscriptions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources