Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Security considerations for the API Management landing zone accelerator
Article
2023-10-09
7 contributors
In this article
This article provides design considerations and recommendations for security when using the API Management landing zone accelerator. Security covers multiple aspects including securing the frontend APIs, securing backends, and securing the developer portal.
Learn more about thesecuritydesign area.
Design considerations
Consider how you want to secure your frontend APIs beyond usingsubscription keys.OAuth 2.0, OpenID Connect, andmutual TLSare common options with built-in support.
Think about how you want to protect your backend services behind API Management.Client certificatesandOAuth 2.0are two supported options.
Consider which client and backendprotocols and ciphersare required to meet your security requirements.
Consider API Managementvalidation policiesto validate REST or SOAP API requests and responses against schemas defined in the API definition or uploaded to the instance. These policies are not a replacement for a Web Application Firewall but can provide additional protection against some threats.NoteAdding validation policies can have performance implications, so we recommend performance load tests to assess their impact on API throughput.
Note
Adding validation policies can have performance implications, so we recommend performance load tests to assess their impact on API throughput.
Consider which identity providers besides Microsoft Entra ID need to be supported.
Design recommendations
Deploy a Web Application Firewall (WAF) in front of API Management to protect against common web application exploits and vulnerabilities.
Use Azure Key Vault to securely store and manage secrets and make them available throughnamed valuesin API Management.
Create asystem-assigned managed identityin API Management to establish trust relationships between the service and other resources protected by Microsoft Entra ID, including Key Vault and backend services.
APIs should only be accessible over HTTPS to protect data in-transit and ensure its integrity.
Use the latest TLS version when encrypting information in transit. Disable outdated and unnecessary protocols and ciphers when possible.
Enterprise scale assumptions
The following are assumptions that went into the development of the API Management landing zone accelerator:
Configuration of Azure Application Gateway as a WAF.
Protection of the API Management instance in a VNet that controls internal and external connectivity.
Next steps
SeeAzure security baseline for API Managementfor additional guidance on securing your API Management environments.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources