Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft identity platform code samples for authentication and authorization
Article
2025-01-27
55 contributors
In this article
These code samples are built and maintained by Microsoft to demonstrate usage of our authentication libraries with the Microsoft identity platform. Common authentication and authorization scenarios are implemented in severalapplication types, development languages, and frameworks.
Sign in users to web applications and provide authorized access to protected web APIs.
Protect a web API by requiring an access token to perform API operations.
Each code sample includes aREADME.mdfile describing how to build the project (if applicable) and run the sample application. Comments in the code help you understand how these libraries are used in the application to perform authentication and authorization by using the identity platform.
Samples and guides
Use the tabs to sort the samples by application type, or your preferred language/framework.
By app type
By language/framework
Single-page applications
These samples show how to write a single-page application secured with Microsoft identity platform. These samples use one of the flavors of MSAL.js.
Web applications
The following samples illustrate web applications that sign in users. Some samples also demonstrate the application calling Microsoft Graph, or your own web API with the user's identity.
Web API
The following samples show how to protect a web API with the Microsoft identity platform, and how to call a downstream API from the web API.
Desktop
The following samples show public client desktop applications that access the Microsoft Graph API, or your own web API in the name of the user. Apart from theDesktop (Console) with Web Authentication Manager (WAM)sample, all these client applications use the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL).
Mobile
The following samples show public client mobile applications that access the Microsoft Graph API. These client applications use the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL).
Service / daemon
The following samples show an application that accesses the Microsoft Graph API with its own identity (with no user).
Browserless (Headless)
The following sample shows a public client application running on a device without a web browser. The app can be a command-line tool, an app running on Linux or Mac, or an IoT application. The sample features an app accessing the Microsoft Graph API, in the name of a user who signs in interactively on another device (such as a mobile phone). This client application uses the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL).
Azure Functions as web APIs
The following samples show how to protect an Azure Function using HttpTrigger and exposing a web API with the Microsoft identity platform, and how to call a downstream API from the web API.
Microsoft Teams applications
The following sample illustrates Microsoft Teams Tab application that signs in users. Additionally it demonstrates how to call Microsoft Graph API with the user's identity using the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL).
Multitenant SaaS
The following samples show how to configure your application to accept sign-ins from any Microsoft Entra tenant. Configuring your application to bemultitenantmeans that you can offer aSoftware as a Service(SaaS) application to many organizations, allowing their users to be able to sign-in to your application after providing consent.
C#
The following samples show how to build applications using the C# language and frameworks
iOS
The following samples show how to build applications for the iOS platform.
JavaScript
The following samples show how to build applications for the JavaScript language and platform.
Java
The following samples show how to build applications for the Java language and platform.
Python
The following samples show how to build applications for the Python language and platform.
Kotlin
The following samples show how to build applications with Kotlin.
Ruby
The following samples show how to build applications with Ruby.
Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)
The following samples show how to build applications with Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF).
Related content
If you'd like to delve deeper into more sample code, see:
Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an Angular
Sign in users in a Node.js and Express web app
Call the Microsoft Graph API from a Universal Windows Platform
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources