Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How to set up Windows Authentication for Azure SQL Managed Instance using Microsoft Entra ID and Kerberos
Article
2023-09-29
15 contributors
In this article
This article gives an overview of how to set up infrastructure and managed instances to implementWindows Authentication for principals on Azure SQL Managed Instancewith Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory).
There are two phases to set up Windows Authentication for Azure SQL Managed Instance using Microsoft Entra ID and Kerberos.
One-time infrastructure setup.Synchronize Active Directory (AD) and Microsoft Entra ID, if this hasn't already been done.Enable the modern interactive authentication flow, when available. The modern interactive flow is recommended for organizations withMicrosoft Entra joinedorhybrid joinedclients running Windows 10 20H1 / Windows Server 2022 and higher.Set up the incoming trust-based authentication flow. This is recommended for customers who can't use the modern interactive flow, but who have AD joined clients running Windows 10 / Windows Server 2012 and higher.
Synchronize Active Directory (AD) and Microsoft Entra ID, if this hasn't already been done.
Enable the modern interactive authentication flow, when available. The modern interactive flow is recommended for organizations withMicrosoft Entra joinedorhybrid joinedclients running Windows 10 20H1 / Windows Server 2022 and higher.
Set up the incoming trust-based authentication flow. This is recommended for customers who can't use the modern interactive flow, but who have AD joined clients running Windows 10 / Windows Server 2012 and higher.
Configuration of Azure SQL Managed Instance.Create a system assigned service principal for each managed instance.
Create a system assigned service principal for each managed instance.
Note
Microsoft Entra IDwas previously known as Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
One-time infrastructure setup
The first step in infrastructure setup is to synchronize AD with Microsoft Entra ID, if this hasn't already been completed.
Following this, a system administrator configures authentication flows. Two authentication flows are available to implement Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra principals on Azure SQL Managed Instance: the incoming trust-based flow supports AD joined clients running Windows server 2012 or higher, and the modern interactive flow supports Microsoft Entra joined clients running Windows 10 21H1 or higher.

Synchronize AD with Microsoft Entra ID
Customers should first implementMicrosoft Entra Connectto integrate on-premises directories with Microsoft Entra ID.
Select which authentication flow(s) you will implement
The following diagram shows eligibility and the core functionality of the modern interactive flow and the incoming trust-based flow:

"A decision tree showing that the modern interactive flow is suitable for clients running Windows 10 20H1 or Windows Server 2022 or higher, where clients are Microsoft Entra joined or Microsoft Entra hybrid joined. The incoming trust-based flow is suitable for clients running Windows 10 or Windows Server 2012 or higher where clients are AD joined."

The modern interactive flow works with enlightened clients running Windows 10 21H1 and higher that are Microsoft Entra joined or Microsoft Entra hybrid joined. In the modern interactive flow, users can access Azure SQL Managed Instance without requiring a line of sight to Domain Controllers (DCs). There is no need for a trust object to be created in the customer's AD. To enable the modern interactive flow, an administrator will set group policy for Kerberos authentication tickets (TGT) to be used during login.
The incoming trust-based flow works for clients running Windows 10 or Windows Server 2012 and higher. This flow requires that clients be joined to AD and have a line of sight to AD from on-premises. In the incoming trust-based flow, a trust object is created in the customer's AD and is registered in Microsoft Entra ID. To enable the incoming trust-based flow, an administrator will set up an incoming trust with Microsoft Entra ID and set up Kerberos Proxy via group policy.
Modern interactive authentication flow
The following prerequisites are required to implement the modern interactive authentication flow:
dsregcmd.exe /status
SeeHow to set up Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra ID with the modern interactive flowfor steps to enable this authentication flow.
Incoming trust-based authentication flow
The following prerequisites are required to implement the incoming trust-based authentication flow:
dsregcmd.exe /status
SeeHow to set up Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra ID with the incoming trust based flowfor instructions on enabling this authentication flow.
Configure Azure SQL Managed Instance
The steps to set up Azure SQL Managed Instance are the same for both the incoming trust-based authentication flow and the modern interactive authentication flow.
The following prerequisites are required to configure a managed instance for Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra principals:
Install-Module -Name Az.Sql
Install-Module –Name Microsoft.Graph
SeeConfigure Azure SQL Managed Instance for Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra IDfor steps to configure each managed instance.
Limitations
The following limitations apply to Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra principals on Azure SQL Managed Instance:
Not available for Linux clients
Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra principals is currently supported only for client machines running Windows.
Microsoft Entra ID cached logon
Windows limits how often it connects to Microsoft Entra ID, so there is a potential for user accounts to not have a refreshed Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) within 4 hours of an upgrade or fresh deployment of a client machine.  User accounts who do not have a refreshed TGT results in failed ticket requests from Microsoft Entra ID.
As an administrator, you can trigger an online logon immediately to handle upgrade scenarios by running the following command on the client machine, then locking and unlocking the user session to get a refreshed TGT:
dsregcmd.exe /RefreshPrt
dsregcmd.exe /RefreshPrt
Next steps
Learn more about implementing Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra principals on Azure SQL Managed Instance:
What is Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra principals on Azure SQL Managed Instance?
How Windows Authentication for Azure SQL Managed Instance is implemented with Microsoft Entra ID and Kerberos
How to set up Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra ID with the modern interactive flow
How to set up Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra ID with the incoming trust-based flow
Configure Azure SQL Managed Instance for Windows Authentication for Microsoft Entra ID
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources