Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Troubleshooting connectivity problems between Azure VMs
Article
2023-07-19
9 contributors
In this article
You might experience connectivity problems between Azure virtual machines (VMs). This article provides troubleshooting steps to help you resolve this problem.
If your Azure issue is not addressed in this article, visit the Azure forums onMicrosoft Q & A and Stack Overflow. You can post your issue in these forums, or post to@AzureSupport on Twitter. You also can submit an Azure support request. To submit a support request, on theAzure supportpage, selectGet support.
Symptom
One Azure VM can't connect to another Azure VM.
Troubleshooting guidance
Check whether NIC is misconfigured
Check whether network traffic is blocked by NSG or UDR
Check whether network traffic is blocked by VM firewall
Check whether VM app or service is listening on the port
Check whether the problem is caused by SNAT
Check whether traffic is blocked by ACLs for the classic VM
Check whether the endpoint is created for the classic VM
Try to connect to a VM network share
Check Inter-VNet connectivity
Note
You can also use Test-NetConnection module in PowerShell to diagnose information for a connection.
Troubleshooting steps
Follow these steps to troubleshoot the problem. After you complete each step, check whether the problem is resolved.
Step 1: Check whether NIC is misconfigured
Follow the steps inHow to reset network interface for Azure Windows VM.
If the problem occurs after you modify the network interface (NIC), follow these steps:
Multi-NIC VMs
Add a NIC.
Fix the problems in the bad NIC or remove the bad NIC.  Then add the NIC again.
For more information, seeAdd network interfaces to or remove from virtual machines.
Single-NIC VM
Redeploy Windows VM
Redeploy Linux VM
Step 2: Check whether network traffic is blocked by NSG or UDR
UseNetwork Watcher IP Flow VerifyandConnection troubleshootto determine whether there's a Network Security Group (NSG) or User-Defined Route (UDR) that is interfering with traffic flow. You may need to add inbound rules on both NSGs. The rules must be at the subnet level and the virtual machine's interface level.
Step 3: Check whether network traffic is blocked by VM firewall
Disable the firewall, and then test the result. If the problem is resolved, verify the firewall settings, and then re-enable the firewall.
Step 4: Check whether VM app or service is listening on the port
You can use one of the following methods to check whether the VM app or service is listening on the port.
Run the following commands to check whether the server is listening on that port.
Windows VM
netstat –ano
netstat –ano
Linux VM
netstat -l
netstat -l
Run thetelnetcommand on the virtual machine itself to test the port. If the test fails, the application or service isn't configured to listen on that port.
Step 5: Check whether the problem is caused by SNAT
In some scenarios, the VM is placed behind a load balance solution that has a dependency on resources outside of Azure. In these scenarios, if you experience intermittent connection problems, the problem may be caused bySNAT port exhaustion. To resolve the issue, create a VIP (or ILPIP for classic) for each VM that is behind the load balancer and secure with NSG or ACL.
Step 6: Check whether traffic is blocked by ACLs for the classic VM
An  access control list (ACL) provides the ability to selectively permit or deny traffic for a virtual machine endpoint. For more information, seeManage the ACL on an endpoint.
Step 7: Check whether the endpoint is created for the classic VM
All VMs that you create in Azure by using the classic deployment model can automatically communicate over a private network channel with other virtual machines in the same cloud service or virtual network. However, computers on other virtual networks require endpoints to direct the inbound network traffic to a virtual machine. For more information, seeHow to set up endpoints.
Step 8: Try to connect to a VM network share
If you can't connect to a VM network share, the problem may be caused by unavailable NICs in the VM. To delete the unavailable NICs, seeHow to delete the unavailable NICs
Step 9: Check Inter-VNet connectivity
UseNetwork Watcher IP Flow VerifyandNSG Flow Loggingto determine whether there's an NSG or UDR that is interfering with traffic flow. You can also verify your Inter-VNet configurationhere.
Need help? Contact support.
If you still need help,contact supportto get your issue resolved quickly.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources