Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Introduction to an SAP adoption scenario
Article
2022-12-01
8 contributors
In this article
This article series outlines the process for integrating an SAP platform into your cloud adoption efforts.
Executive summary of SAP on Azure
These articles describe how SAP workloads impact your overall strategy, cloud adoption plan, and environmental readiness efforts, with detailed guidance on common drift for each effort. Once an environment is established, the series explains the processes for migrating an SAP platform and how to use cloud technologies to innovate on that platform. To support your cloud adoption needs, the series also outlines considerations and best practices for managing governance and operations throughout an SAP deployment.
To accelerate these efforts, the articles also include detailed technical resources that describe how to build an enterprise-scale landing zone that can support your mission-critical SAP needs.
How to align to the SAP migration framework
The SAP on Azure team has produced a comprehensive framework for migrating and innovating with SAP on Azure. That framework is the main guide for organizations that focus on delivering the most successful SAP migration to Azure. If your highest priority is successfully migrating SAP to the cloud, then continue to use that guide.

This article series outlines an SAP scenario for the Cloud Adoption Framework, and it complements the current SAP migration framework. These articles are also designed for a slightly different audience with slightly different goals, and they can help your organization if you're integrating the migration of SAP into your overall cloud adoption plan. As organizations migrate to the cloud, they typically need to migrate, innovate, and manage a range of workloads and technology platforms to accomplish their business goals. Those efforts align with the methodologies in the Cloud Adoption Framework for consistent processes and approaches across various technology platforms and workloads.
If your team is following the guidance in both frameworks, you'll see very similar guidance just in packaging that better aligns with the audience and their objectives. Below is a list of terms for the methodologies that can help both audiences to have a similar conversation:
Strategy
Plan
The guidance aligns these sources to help your SAP and central IT teams work together during all phases of cloud adoption.
The SAP adoption process
Adopting SAP workloads in the cloud incorporates and addresses most of the methodologies and phases within the Cloud Adoption Framework. Distinct constraints within each phase will require actions specific to SAP, and this article series maps standard processes to SAP-specific tasks.

Next steps
The following articles provide guidance for specific points throughout the cloud adoption journey to help you succeed in adopting SAP in Azure.
Strategic impact of SAP in the cloud
Plan for SAP cloud adoption in Azure
Review your environment or Azure landing zones
Migrate an SAP platform to Azure
Innovate with SAP
Manage SAP
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources