Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Scan your SQL servers for vulnerabilities
Article
2025-01-14
7 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Defender for SQL servers on machines extends the protections for your Azure-native SQL Servers to fully support hybrid environments and protect SQL servers (all supported versions) hosted in Azure, other cloud environments, and even on-premises machines:
SQL Server on Virtual Machines
On-premises SQL servers:SQL Server on Azure Arc-enabled serversSQL Server running on Windows machines without Azure Arc
SQL Server on Azure Arc-enabled servers
SQL Server running on Windows machines without Azure Arc
The integratedvulnerability assessment scannerdiscovers, tracks, and helps you remediate potential database vulnerabilities. Assessment scan findings provide an overview of your SQL machines' security state and details of any security findings.
Note
The scan is lightweight, safe, only takes a few seconds per database to run and is entirely read-only. It does not make any changes to your database.
Execute permissions on the following stored procedures are required for some of the vulnerability assessment rules to run correctly: xp_instance_regread, sysmail_help_profile_sp.
Explore vulnerability assessment reports
The vulnerability assessment service scans your databases every 12 hours.
The vulnerability assessment dashboard provides an overview of your assessment results across all your databases, along with a summary of healthy and unhealthy databases and an overall summary of failing checks according to risk distribution.
You can view the vulnerability assessment results directly from Defender for Cloud.
From Defender for Cloud's sidebar, open theRecommendationspage.
From Defender for Cloud's sidebar, open theRecommendationspage.
Select the recommendationSQL servers on machines should have vulnerability findings resolved. For more information, see theDefender for Cloud recommendations reference page.The detailed view for this recommendation appears.
Select the recommendationSQL servers on machines should have vulnerability findings resolved. For more information, see theDefender for Cloud recommendations reference page.

The detailed view for this recommendation appears.

Check out additional information about the recommendation:For an overview of scanned resources (databases) and the list of security checks that were tested, open theAffected resourcesand select the server of interest.For an overview of the vulnerabilities grouped by a specific SQL database, select the database of interest.In each view, the security checks are sorted bySeverity. Select a specific security check to see a details pane with aDescription, how toRemediateit, and other related information such asImpactorBenchmark.
Check out additional information about the recommendation:
For an overview of scanned resources (databases) and the list of security checks that were tested, open theAffected resourcesand select the server of interest.
For an overview of scanned resources (databases) and the list of security checks that were tested, open theAffected resourcesand select the server of interest.
For an overview of the vulnerabilities grouped by a specific SQL database, select the database of interest.
For an overview of the vulnerabilities grouped by a specific SQL database, select the database of interest.
In each view, the security checks are sorted bySeverity. Select a specific security check to see a details pane with aDescription, how toRemediateit, and other related information such asImpactorBenchmark.
Set a baseline
As you review your assessment results, you can mark results as an acceptable baseline in your environment. The baseline is essentially a customization of how the results are reported. Results that match the baseline are considered passing in subsequent scans. After you've established your baseline security state, the vulnerability assessment scanner only reports deviations from the baseline. In this way, you can focus your attention on the relevant issues.

Export results
Use theContinuous exportfeature of Microsoft Defender for Cloud to export vulnerability assessment findings to Azure Event Hubs or Log Analytics workspace.
View vulnerabilities in graphical, interactive reports
Defender for Cloud's integrated Azure Monitor Workbooks gallery includes an interactive report of all findings from the vulnerability scanners for machines, containers in container registries, and SQL servers.
Findings for each of these scanners are reported in separate recommendations:
Machines should have vulnerability findings resolved
Container registry images should have vulnerability findings resolved (powered by Qualys)
SQL databases should have vulnerability findings resolved
SQL servers on machines should have vulnerability findings resolved
The 'Vulnerability Assessment Findings' report gathers all of these findings and organizes them by severity, resource type, and category. You can find the report in the workbooks gallery available from Defender for Cloud's sidebar.

Disable specific findings
If you need to ignore a finding rather than remediate it, you can optionally disable it. Disabled findings don't impact your secure score or generate unwanted noise.
When a finding matches the criteria you've defined in your disable rules, it won't appear in the list of findings. Typical scenarios include:
Disable findings with severity below medium
Disable findings that are non-patchable
Disable findings from benchmarks that aren't of interest for a defined scope
Important
To disable specific findings, you need permission to edit a policy in Azure Policy. Learn more inAzure RBAC permissions in Azure Policy.
To create a rule:
From the recommendations detail page forSQL servers on machines should have vulnerability findings resolved, selectDisable rule.
From the recommendations detail page forSQL servers on machines should have vulnerability findings resolved, selectDisable rule.
Select the relevant scope.
Select the relevant scope.
Define your criteria. You can use any of the following criteria:Finding IDSeverityBenchmarks
Define your criteria. You can use any of the following criteria:
Finding ID
Severity
Benchmarks

SelectApply rule. Changes might take up to 24 hours to take effect.
SelectApply rule. Changes might take up to 24 hours to take effect.
To view, override, or delete a rule:SelectDisable rule.From the scope list, subscriptions with active rules show asRule applied.To view or delete the rule, select the ellipsis menu ("...").
To view, override, or delete a rule:
SelectDisable rule.
SelectDisable rule.
From the scope list, subscriptions with active rules show asRule applied.
From the scope list, subscriptions with active rules show asRule applied.

To view or delete the rule, select the ellipsis menu ("...").
To view or delete the rule, select the ellipsis menu ("...").
Manage vulnerability assessments programmatically
Use Azure PowerShell
You can use Azure PowerShell cmdlets to programmatically manage your vulnerability assessments. The supported cmdlets are:
Data residency
SQL Vulnerability Assessment queries the SQL server using publicly available queries under Defender for Cloud recommendations for SQL Vulnerability Assessment and stores the query results. SQL Vulnerability Assessment data is stored in the location of the Log Analytics workspace to which the machine is connected. For example, if you connect a SQL Virtual Machine to a Log Analytics workspace in West Europe, the results will be stored in West Europe. This data is collected only if the SQL Vulnerability Assessment solution is enabled on the Log Analytics workspace.
Metadata information about the connected machine is also collected, specifically:
Operating system name, type, and version
Computer fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
Connected Machine agent version
UUID (BIOS ID)
SQL server name and underlying database names
You can specify the region where your SQL Vulnerability Assessment data is stored by choosing the Log Analytics workspace location. Microsoft might replicate to other regions for data resiliency, but it does not replicate data outside the geography.
Note
Changing the Defender for SQL on Machines plan's Log Analytics workspace will reset the scan results and baseline settings. If you revert to the original Log Analytics workspace within 90 days, the scan results and baseline settings will be available again.
Next step
Overview of Microsoft Defender for SQL
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources