Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data lineage
Article
2024-12-10
7 contributors
In this article
Data lineage plays an important role in cloud-scale analytics. Lineage shows dependencies between raw data and finished products, describing the transformations and manipulations that turn raw data into final data products. Data lineage spans the lifecycle of data, from its origin to its movement across the data estate. It’s used for troubleshooting, root cause analysis, data quality analysis, compliance, and impact analysis. It also adds context to datasets and products that enable data products to be discoverable and self-serviceable.
A primary feature of any data catalog is its ability to show the lineage between data products.
Microsoft Purview Data Catalog connects with various data processing, storage, and analytics systems to extract lineage information. The goal is to represent the movement, transformation, and operational metadata from each data system.
Azure Data Factory and Azure Synapse pipelines are recommended for ingestion solutions because they enable data lineage in Microsoft Purview. Alternate ingestion patterns should use the Apache Atlas API to update data lineage as part of their data processing.
Microsoft Fabric supports lineage without requiring Microsoft Purview. If you require one place to view lineage, then we recommend setting Microsoft Purview to scan a Microsoft Fabric tenant as this setting automatically brings in metadata and lineage from Fabric items, including Power BI, into Microsoft Purview Data Catalog. For more information, seeLineage in FabricandHow to get lineage from Microsoft Fabric items into Microsoft Purview.
Tip
For more information on supported systems and best practices, seeData Lineage in Microsoft Purview.
Next steps
Learn how to manage master data in Azure.
Master data management
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources