Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Extend support for SQL Server with Azure
Article
2023-08-28
6 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL Server on Azure VM
SQL Server 2012 has reached theend of its support (EOS) life cycle. Because many customers are still using this version, we're providing several options to continue getting support. You can migrate your on-premises SQL Server instances to Azure virtual machines (VMs), migrate to Azure SQL Database, or stay on-premises and purchase extended security updates.
Unlike with a managed instance, migrating to an Azure VM does not require recertifying your applications. And unlike with staying on-premises, you'll receive free extended security patches by migrating to an Azure VM.
The rest of this article provides considerations for migrating your SQL Server instance to an Azure VM.
For more information about end of support options, seeEnd of support.
Provisioning
There is a pay-as-you-goSQL Server 2012 on Windows Server 2012 R2image available on Azure Marketplace.
Note
SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 R2 are out of extended support and no longer available from the Azure Marketplace.
Customers who are on an earlier version of SQL Server will need to either self-install or upgrade to SQL Server 2012. Likewise, customers on an earlier version of Windows Server will need to either deploy their VM from a custom VHD or upgrade to Windows Server 2012 R2.
Images deployed through Azure Marketplace come with the SQL IaaS Agent extension pre-installed. The SQL IaaS Agent extension is a requirement for flexible licensing and automated patching. Customers who deploy self-installed VMs will need to manually install the SQL IaaS Agent extension.
Note
Although the SQL ServerCreateandManageoptions will work with the SQL Server 2012 image in the Azure portal, the following features arenot supported: Automatic backups, Azure Key Vault integration, and R Services.
Licensing
Pay-as-you-go SQL Server 2012 deployments can convert toAzure Hybrid Benefit.
To convert a Software Assurance (SA)-based license to pay-as-you-go, customers should register with theSQL IaaS Agent extension. After that registration, the SQL license type will be interchangeable between Azure Hybrid Benefit and pay-as-you-go.
Self-installed SQL Server 2012 instances on an Azure VM can register with the SQL IaaS Agent extension and convert their license type to pay-as-you-go.
Migration
You can migrate EOS SQL Server instances to an Azure VM with manual backup/restore methods. This is the most common migration method from on-premises to an Azure VM.
Azure Site Recovery
For bulk migrations, we recommend theAzure Site Recoveryservice. With Azure Site Recovery, customers can replicate the whole VM, including SQL Server from on-premises to Azure VM.
SQL Server requires app-consistent Azure Site Recovery snapshots to guarantee recovery. Azure Site Recovery supports app-consistent snapshots with a minimum 1-hour interval. The minimum recovery point objective (RPO) possible for SQL Server with Azure Site Recovery migrations is 1 hour. The recovery time objective (RTO) is 2 hours plus SQL Server recovery time.
Database Migration Service
TheAzure Database Migration Serviceis an option for customers if they're migrating from on-premises to an Azure VM by upgrading SQL Server to the 2012 version or later.
Disaster recovery
Disaster recovery solutions for EOS SQL Server on an Azure VM are as follows:
SQL Server backups: Use Azure Backup to help protect your EOS SQL Server 2012 against ransomware, accidental deletion, and corruption with a 15-minute RPO and point-in-time recovery. For more details, seethis article.
SQL Server backups: Use Azure Backup to help protect your EOS SQL Server 2012 against ransomware, accidental deletion, and corruption with a 15-minute RPO and point-in-time recovery. For more details, seethis article.
Log shipping: You can create a log shipping replica in another zone or Azure region with continuous restores to reduce the RTO. You need to manually configure log shipping.
Log shipping: You can create a log shipping replica in another zone or Azure region with continuous restores to reduce the RTO. You need to manually configure log shipping.
Azure Site Recovery: You can replicate your VM between zones and regions through Azure Site Recovery replication. SQL Server requires app-consistent snapshots to guarantee recovery in case of a disaster. Azure Site Recovery offers a minimum 1-hour RPO and a 2-hour (plus SQL Server recovery time) RTO for EOS SQL Server disaster recovery.
Azure Site Recovery: You can replicate your VM between zones and regions through Azure Site Recovery replication. SQL Server requires app-consistent snapshots to guarantee recovery in case of a disaster. Azure Site Recovery offers a minimum 1-hour RPO and a 2-hour (plus SQL Server recovery time) RTO for EOS SQL Server disaster recovery.
Security patching
Extended security updates for SQL Server VMs are delivered through the Microsoft Windows Update channels after the SQL Server VM has been registered with theSQL IaaS Agent extension. Patches can be downloaded manually or automatically.
Automated patchingis enabled by default. Automated patching allows Azure to automatically patch SQL Server and the operating system. You can specify a day of the week, time, and duration for a maintenance window if the SQL Server IaaS extension is installed. Azure performs patching in this maintenance window. The maintenance window schedule uses the VM locale for time. For more information, seeAutomated patching for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.
For improved patching management, which also includes Cumulative Updates, try the integratedAzure Update Managerexperience.
Note
Registration with theSQL IaaS Agent extensionis not required formanualinstallation of extended security updates on Azure virtual machines. Microsoft Update automatically detects the VM is running in Azure and presents relevant updates for download even if the extension is not installed.
Azure Update managementas of today does not detect patches for SQL Server Marketplace images. You should look under Windows Updates to apply SQL Server updates in this case.
Next steps
Migration guide: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines
Create a SQL Server VM in the Azure portal
FAQ for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines
Find out more aboutend of supportoptions andExtended Security Updates.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources