Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Integrate Azure Managed HSM with Azure Policy
Article
2025-04-15
3 contributors
In this article
Azure Policyis a governance tool that gives users the ability to audit and manage their Azure environment at scale. Azure Policy lets you place guardrails on Azure resources to ensure they're compliant with assigned policy rules. It allows users to perform audit, real-time enforcement, and remediation of their Azure environment. The results of audits performed by policy are available to users in a compliance dashboard, where they'll be able to see a drill-down of which resources and components are compliant. For more information, see theOverview of the Azure Policy service.
Example Usage Scenarios:
You currently don't have a solution to perform an audit across your organization, or you are conducting manual audits of your environment by asking individual teams within your organization to report their compliance. You're looking for a way to automate this task, perform audits in real time, and guarantee the accuracy of the audit.
You want to enforce your company security policies and stop individuals from creating certain cryptographic keys, but you don't have an automated way to block their creation.
You want to relax some requirements for your test teams, but you want to maintain tight controls over your production environment. You need a simple automated way to separate enforcement of your resources.
You want to be sure that you can roll back enforcement of new policies if there's a live-site issue. You need a one-click solution to turn off enforcement of the policy.
You are relying on a third-party solution for auditing your environment and you want to use an internal Microsoft offering.
Types of policy effects and guidance
Audit: When the effect of a policy is set to audit, the policy will not cause any breaking changes to your environment. It will only alert you to components such as keys that do not comply with the policy definitions within a specified scope, by marking these components as noncompliant in the policy compliance dashboard. Audit is default if no policy effect is selected.
Deny: When the effect of a policy is set to deny, the policy blocks the creation of new components (such as weaker keys) and blocks new versions of existing keys that do not comply with the policy definition. Existing noncompliant resources within a Managed HSM are not affected and the 'audit' capabilities continue to operate.
Keys using elliptic curve cryptography should have the specified curve names
If you use elliptic curve cryptography or ECC keys, you can customize an allowed list of curve names from this list. The default option allows all the following curve names.
P-256
P-256K
P-384
P-521
Keys should have expirations dates set
This policy audits all keys in your Managed HSMs and flags keys that do not have an expiration date set as noncompliant. You can also use this policy to block the creation of keys that do not have an expiration date set.
Keys should have more than the specified number of days before expiration
If a key is too close to expiration, an organizational delay to rotate the key may result in an outage. Keys should be rotated at a specified number of days before expiration to provide sufficient time to react to a failure. This policy audits keys too close to their expiration date and allows you to set this threshold in days. You can also use this policy to prevent the creation of new keys too close to their expiration date.
Keys using RSA cryptography should have a specified minimum key size
Using RSA keys with smaller key sizes is not a secure design practice. You may be subject to audit and certification standards that mandate the use of a minimum key size. The following policy allows you to set a minimum key size requirement on your Managed HSM. You can audit keys that do not meet this minimum requirement. This policy can also be used to block the creation of new keys that do not meet the minimum key size requirement.
Enabling and managing a Managed HSM policy through the Azure CLI
Giving permission to scan daily
To check the compliance of the pool's inventory keys, the customer must assign the "Managed HSM Crypto Auditor" role to "Azure Key Vault Managed HSM Key Governance Service"(App ID: a1b76039-a76c-499f-a2dd-846b4cc32627) so it can access key's metadata. Without the grant of permission, inventory keys are not going to be reported on Azure Policy compliance report, only new keys, updated keys, imported keys, and rotated keys are checked on compliance. To do so, a user who has role of "Managed HSM Administrator" to the Managed HSM needs to run the following Azure CLI commands:
On windows:
az ad sp show --id a1b76039-a76c-499f-a2dd-846b4cc32627 --query id
az ad sp show --id a1b76039-a76c-499f-a2dd-846b4cc32627 --query id
Copy theidprinted and paste it in the following command:
id
az keyvault role assignment create --scope / --role "Managed HSM Crypto Auditor" --assignee-object-id "the id printed in previous command" --hsm-name <hsm name>
az keyvault role assignment create --scope / --role "Managed HSM Crypto Auditor" --assignee-object-id "the id printed in previous command" --hsm-name <hsm name>
On Linux or Windows Subsystem of Linux:
spId=$(az ad sp show --id a1b76039-a76c-499f-a2dd-846b4cc32627 --query id|cut -d "\"" -f2)
echo $spId
az keyvault role assignment create --scope / --role "Managed HSM Crypto Auditor" --assignee-object-id $spId --hsm-name <hsm name>
spId=$(az ad sp show --id a1b76039-a76c-499f-a2dd-846b4cc32627 --query id|cut -d "\"" -f2)
echo $spId
az keyvault role assignment create --scope / --role "Managed HSM Crypto Auditor" --assignee-object-id $spId --hsm-name <hsm name>
Create policy assignments - define rules of audit and/or deny
Policy assignments have concrete values defined for policy definitions' parameters. In theAzure portal, go to "Policy", filter on the "Key Vault" category, find these four preview key governance policy definitions. Select one, then select "Assign" button on top. Fill in each field. If the policy assignment is for request denials, use a clear name about the policy because, when a request is denied, the policy assignment's name appears in the error. Select Next, uncheck "Only show parameters that need input or review", and enter values for parameters of the policy definition. Skip the "Remediation", and create the assignment. The service needs up to 30 minutes to enforce "Deny" assignments.
Azure Key Vault Managed HSM keys should have an expiration date
Azure Key Vault Managed HSM keys using RSA cryptography should have a specified minimum key size
Azure Key Vault Managed HSM Keys should have more than the specified number of days before expiration
Azure Key Vault Managed HSM keys using elliptic curve cryptography should have the specified curve names
You can also do this operation using the Azure CLI. SeeCreate a policy assignment to identify noncompliant resources with Azure CLI.
Test your setup
Try to update/create a key that violates the rule, if you have a policy assignment with effect "Deny", it returns 403 to your request.
Review the scan result of inventory keys of auditing policy assignments. After 12 hours, check the Policy's Compliance menu, filter on the "Key Vault" category, and find your assignments. Select on each of them, to check the compliance result report.
Troubleshooting
If there are no compliance results of a pool after one day. Check if the Step 2 role assignment was successful. Without Step 2, the key governance service isn't able to access key's metadata. The Azure CLIaz keyvault role assignment listcommand can verify whether the role is assigned.
az keyvault role assignment list
Next Steps
Logging and frequently asked questions for Azure policy for key vault
Learn more about theAzure Policy service
See Key Vault samples:Key Vault built-in policy definitions
Learn aboutMicrosoft cloud security benchmark on Key vault
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources