Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Blueprints (Preview)?
Article
2023-09-07
11 contributors
In this article
Important
On July 11, 2026, Blueprints (Preview) will be deprecated. Migrate your existing blueprint definitions and assignments toTemplate SpecsandDeployment Stacks. Blueprint artifacts are to be converted to ARM JSON templates or Bicep files used to define deployment stacks. To learn how to author an artifact as an ARM resource, see:
Policy
RBAC
Deployments
Just as a blueprint allows an engineer or an architect to sketch a project's design parameters,
Azure Blueprints enables cloud architects and central information technology groups to define a
repeatable set of Azure resources that implements and adheres to an organization's standards,
patterns, and requirements. Azure Blueprints makes it possible for development teams to rapidly
build and start up new environments with trust they're building within organizational compliance
with a set of built-in components, such as networking, to speed up development and delivery.
Blueprints are a declarative way to orchestrate the deployment of various resource templates and
other artifacts such as:
Role Assignments
Policy Assignments
Azure Resource Manager templates (ARM templates)
Resource Groups
The Azure Blueprints service is backed by the globally distributedAzure Cosmos DB. Blueprint objects are replicated to multiple
Azure regions. This replication provides low latency, high availability, and consistent access to
your blueprint objects, regardless of which region Azure Blueprints deploys your resources to.
How it's different from ARM templates
The service is designed to help withenvironment setup. This setup often consists of a set of
resource groups, policies, role assignments, and ARM template deployments. A blueprint is a package
to bring each of theseartifacttypes together and allow you to compose and version that package,
including through a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipeline. Ultimately,
each is assigned to a subscription in a single operation that can be audited and tracked.
Nearly everything that you want to include for deployment in Azure Blueprints can be accomplished
with an ARM template. However, an ARM template is a document that doesn't exist natively in Azure -
each is stored either locally or in source control or inTemplates (preview). The template gets used for deployments of one or
more Azure resources, but once those resources deploy there's no active connection or relationship
to the template.
With Azure Blueprints, the relationship between the blueprint definition (whatshould bedeployed)
and the blueprint assignment (whatwasdeployed) is preserved. This connection supports improved
tracking and auditing of deployments. Azure Blueprints can also upgrade several subscriptions at
once that are governed by the same blueprint.
There's no need to choose between an ARM template and a blueprint. Each blueprint can consist of
zero or more ARM templateartifacts. This support means that previous efforts to develop and
maintain a library of ARM templates are reusable in Azure Blueprints.
How it's different from Azure Policy
A blueprint is a package or container for composing focus-specific sets of standards, patterns, and
requirements related to the implementation of Azure cloud services, security, and design that can be
reused to maintain consistency and compliance.
Apolicyis a default allow and explicit deny system focused on resource
properties during deployment and for already existing resources. It supports cloud governance by
validating that resources within a subscription adhere to requirements and standards.
Including a policy in a blueprint enables the creation of the right pattern or design during
assignment of the blueprint. The policy inclusion makes sure that only approved or expected changes
can be made to the environment to protect ongoing compliance to the intent of the blueprint.
A policy can be included as one of manyartifactsin a blueprint definition. Blueprints also
support using parameters with policies and initiatives.
Blueprint definition
A blueprint is composed ofartifacts. Azure Blueprints currently supports the following resources
as artifacts:
Note
Each artifact must be 2 MB or less. If the artifact exceeds 2 MB, you'll get an HTTP 500 error (Internal Server Error).
Blueprint definition locations
When creating a blueprint definition, you'll define where the blueprint is saved. Blueprints can be
saved to amanagement groupor subscription that you haveContributoraccess to. If the location is a management group, the blueprint is available to
assign to any child subscription of that management group.
Blueprint parameters
Blueprints can pass parameters to either a policy/initiative or an ARM template. When adding eitherartifactto a blueprint, the author decides to provide a defined value for each blueprint
assignment or to allow each blueprint assignment to provide a value at assignment time. This
flexibility provides the option to define a pre-determined value for all uses of the blueprint or to
enable that decision to be made at the time of assignment.
Note
A blueprint can have its own parameters, but these can currently only be created if a blueprint
is generated from REST API instead of through the Portal.
For more information, seeblueprint parameters.
Blueprint publishing
When a blueprint is first created, it's considered to be inDraftmode. When it's ready to be
assigned, it needs to bePublished. Publishing requires defining aVersionstring (letters,
numbers, and hyphens with a max length of 20 characters) along with optionalChange notes. TheVersiondifferentiates it from future changes to the same blueprint and allows each version to
be assigned. This versioning also means differentVersionsof the same blueprint can be assigned
to the same subscription. When additional changes are made to the blueprint, thePublishedVersionstill exists, as do theUnpublished changes. Once the changes are complete, the
updated blueprint isPublishedwith a new and uniqueVersionand can now also be assigned.
Blueprint assignment
EachPublishedVersionof a blueprint can be assigned (with a max name length of 90
characters) to an existing management group or subscription. In the portal, the blueprint defaults
theVersionto the onePublishedmost recently. If there are artifact parameters or
blueprint parameters, then the parameters are defined during the assignment process.
Note
Assigning a blueprint definition to a management group means the assignment object exists at the
management group. The deployment of artifacts still targets a subscription. To perform a
management group assignment, theCreate Or Update REST APImust be used and the
request body must include a value forproperties.scopeto define the target subscription.
properties.scope
Permissions in Azure Blueprints
To use blueprints, you must be granted permissions throughAzure role-based access
control (Azure RBAC). To read or view a blueprint in Azure
portal, your account must have read access to the scope where the blueprint definition is located.
To create blueprints, your account needs the following permissions:
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/write- Create a blueprint definition
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/write
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/artifacts/write- Create artifacts on a blueprint definition
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/artifacts/write
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/versions/write- Publish a blueprint
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/versions/write
To delete blueprints, your account needs the following permissions:
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/delete
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/delete
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/artifacts/delete
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/artifacts/delete
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/versions/delete
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprints/versions/delete
Note
The blueprint definition permissions must be granted or inherited on the management group or
subscription scope where it is saved.
To assign or unassign a blueprint, your account needs the following permissions:
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprintAssignments/write- Assign a blueprint
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprintAssignments/write
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprintAssignments/delete- Unassign a blueprint
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprintAssignments/delete
Note
As blueprint assignments are created on a subscription, the blueprint assign and unassign
permissions must be granted on a subscription scope or be inherited onto a subscription scope.
The following built-in roles are available:
If these built-in roles don't fit your security needs, consider creating acustom
role.
Note
If using a system-assigned managed identity, the service principal for Azure Blueprints requires
theOwnerrole on the assigned subscription in order to enable deployment. If using the
portal, this role is automatically granted and revoked for the deployment. If using the REST API,
this role must be manually granted, but is still automatically revoked after the deployment
completes. If using a user-assigned managed identity, only the user creating the blueprint
assignment needs theMicrosoft.Blueprint/blueprintAssignments/writepermission, which is
included in both theOwnerandBlueprint Operatorbuilt-in roles.
Microsoft.Blueprint/blueprintAssignments/write
Naming limits
The following limitations exist for certain fields:
Video overview
The following overview of Azure Blueprints is from Azure Fridays. For video download, visitAzure Fridays - An overview of Azure Blueprintson Channel 9.
Next steps
Create a blueprint - Portal.
Create a blueprint - PowerShell.
Create a blueprint - REST API.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources