Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor Agent performance benchmark
Article
2025-01-19
6 contributors
In this article
The Azure Monitor Agent can handle many thousands of events per second (EPS) in the gateway event forwarding scenario. The exact throughput rate depends on various factors like the size of each event, the specific data type, and physical hardware resources.
This article describes the Microsoft internal benchmark that's used for testing the agent throughput of 10,000 (10K) syslog events in the gateway forwarder scenario. The benchmark results should provide a guide to size the resources that you need in your environment.
Note
The results in this article are only informational related to the performance of Azure Monitor Agent in a gateway forwarding scenario. The results and the information in the article don't constitute any service agreement on the part of Microsoft.
Best practices for agent as a forwarder
The Linux Azure Monitor Agent should target 10K EPS. A 20K EPS warning might occur, but it doesn't mean that data is lost. The Azure Monitor Agent doesn't guarantee a lossless connection. Loss is more likely when EPS is over 10K.
The forwarder should be on a dedicated system to eliminate potential interference from other workloads.
The forwarder system should be monitored for CPU, memory, and disk utilization to prevent overloads from causing data loss.
The load balancer and redundant forwarder systems should be used to improve reliability and scalability. For other considerations for forwarders, see the Log Analytics gateway documentation.
Agent performance
The benchmark is run in a controlled environment to get repeatable, accurate, and statistically significant results. The resources consumed by the agent are measured under a load of 10,000 simulated syslog events per second. The simulated load is run on the same physical hardware that the agent being tested is on. Test trials run for seven days. For each trial, performance metrics are sampled every second to collect CPU, memory, and network maximum and average usage. This approach provides the right information to help you estimate the resources needed for your environment.
Note
Performance testing results don't measure the end-to-end throughput ingested by a Log Analytics workspace (or other telemetry sinks). End-to-end variability might occur due to network and back-end pipeline performance.
The benchmarks are run on an Azure virtual machine Standard_F8s_v2 system using Azure Monitor Agent Linux version 1.25.2 and 10 GB of disk space for the event cache.
vCPUs: Eight with Hyper-Threading (800% CPU is possible)
Memory: 16 GiB
Temp storage: 64 GiB
Max disk IOPS: 6,400
Network: 12,500 Mbps max on all four physical NICs
Results
FAQs
Get answers to common questions.
How much data is sent per agent?
The amount of data sent per agent depends on:
The solutions you enabled
The number of logs and performance counters that are collected
The volume of data in the logs
For more information, seeAnalyze usage in a Log Analytics workspace.
For computers that are able to run the WireData Agent, use the following query to see how much data is sent:
WireData
| where ProcessName == "C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\\Agent\\MonitoringHost.exe"
| where Direction == "Outbound"
| summarize sum(TotalBytes) by Computer
WireData
| where ProcessName == "C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\\Agent\\MonitoringHost.exe"
| where Direction == "Outbound"
| summarize sum(TotalBytes) by Computer
How much network bandwidth is used by the Microsoft Monitoring Agent when it sends data to Azure Monitor?
Bandwidth is a function of the amount of data that's sent. Data is compressed as it's sent over the network.
Related content
Use the Log Analytics gateway in Azure Monitorto connect computers without internet access.
[Install the Azure Monitor Agent../vm/data-collection.mdndows and Linux virtual machines.
Create a data collection ruleto collect data from the agent and send it to Azure Monitor.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources