Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Frequently asked questions-Back up Azure Database for PostgreSQL server
FAQ
3 contributors
In this article
This article answers common questions about backing up Azure Database for PostgreSQL server with theAzure Backupservice.
Important
Azure Database for PostgreSQL single servers is scheduled for retirement on March 28, 2025. On this date, changes will be implemented to Azure Backup for PostgreSQL single servers. Learn moreabout the retirement announcement here.
To understand the changes to Vaulted backups for PostgreSQL single server, seethis section.
Backup
What's the backup process of Azure Database for PostgreSQL server?
Azure Backup and Azure Database Services together help you to build an enterprise-class backup solution for Azure Database for PostgreSQL servers that retains backups for long term. Learn about the completebackup process.
What are the prerequisites for configuring backup?
Before configuring database backup, you need to:
Create secrets in the key vault.
Allow access permissions for the relevant key vault.
Provide database user's backup privileges on the database.
Allow access permissions for PostgreSQL server.
How do I configure backup on Azure PostgreSQL databases?
You can configure backup on multiple databases across multiple Azure PostgreSQL servers.Learn more
Can I take an on-demand backup of Azure Database for PostgreSQL server?
Yes. To trigger an on-demand backup, seeRun on-demand backup.
Restore
How do I restore PostgreSQL database?
You can restore as another PostgreSQL database or as files.Learn aboutthe PostgreSQL database restore process.
Manage database backups
Can I change backup policy?
Yes, you can change the associated policy with a backup instance.Learn more
Can I temporarily stop database backup?
Yes, to do so, seeStop Protection and Retain Data.
How do I resume database backup?
If you have selected theStop Protection and Retain dataoption while stopping the data backup, you can resume protection for your Azure Database for PostgreSQL server.Learnhow to resume backup.
How do I delete backup data?
To delete the backup data, first, stop the backup and then delete backup data.Learn more
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources