Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Architecture best practices for Azure Databricks and security
Article
2023-11-14
6 contributors
In this article
Azure Databricksis a data analytics platform optimized for Azure cloud services. It offers three environments for developing data intensive applications:
Databricks SQL
Databricks Data Science and Engineering
Databricks Machine Learning
To learn more about how Azure Databricks improves the security of big data analytics, referenceAzure Databricks concepts.
The following sections include design considerations, a configuration checklist, and recommended configuration options specific to Azure Databricks.
Design considerations
All users' notebooks and notebook results are encrypted at rest, by default. If other requirements are in place, consider usingcustomer-managed keys for notebooks.
Checklist
Have you configured Azure Databricks with security in mind?
Use Microsoft Entra IDcredential passthroughto avoid the need for service principals when communicating with Azure Data Lake Storage.
Isolate your workspaces, compute, and data from public access. Make sure that only the right people have access and only through secure channels.
Ensure that the cloud workspaces for your analytics are only accessible by properlymanaged users.
Implement Azure Private Link.
Restrict and monitor your virtual machines.
Use Dynamic IP access lists to allow admins to access workspaces only from their corporate networks.
Use theVNet injectionfunctionality to enable more secure scenarios.
Usediagnostic logsto audit workspace access and permissions.
Consider using theSecure cluster connectivityfeature andhub/spoke architectureto prevent opening ports, and assigning public IP addresses on cluster nodes.
Configuration recommendations
Explore the following table of recommendations to optimize your Azure Databricks configuration for security:
Source artifacts
Azure Databricks source artifacts include the Databricks blog:Best practices to secure an enterprise-scale data platform.
Next step
Azure Database for MySQL and cost optimization
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources