Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Supported Resource log categories for Azure Monitor
Article
2025-04-16
3 contributors
In this article
Azure Monitor resource logsare logs emitted by Azure services that describe the operation of those services or resources. All resource logs available through Azure Monitor share a common top-level schema. Each service has the flexibility to emit unique properties for its own events.
Resource logs were previously known as diagnostic logs.
A combination of the resource type (available in theresourceIdproperty) and the category uniquely identifies a schema. There's a common schema for all resource logs with service-specific fields then added for different log categories. For more information, seeCommon and service-specific schema for Azure resource logs.
resourceId
Costs
Azure Monitor Log Analytics,Azure Storage,Azure Event Hubs, and partners who integrate directly with Azure Monitor (for example,Datadog) have costs associated with ingesting data and storing data. Check the pricing pages linked in the previous sentence to understand the costs for those services. Resource logs are just one type of data that you can send to those locations.
In addition, there might be costs to export some categories of resource logs to those locations. Logs with possible export costs are listed in the next section. Select the links below to see which log categories have export costs associated with them. For more information on export pricing, see thePlatform Logssection on theAzure Monitor pricing page.
Supported metrics and log categories by resource type
Following table lists metrics and log categories available for each resource type.
Next Steps
Learn more about resource logs
Stream resource logs to Event Hubs
Change resource log diagnostic settings using the Azure Monitor REST API
Analyze logs from Azure storage with Log Analytics
Optimize log queries in Azure Monitor
Aggregate data in a Log Analytics workspace by using summary rules (Preview)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources