Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is the Azure Stack Edge Mini R?
Article
2025-01-10
8 contributors
In this article
Azure Stack Edge Mini R is an ultra portable, rugged, edge computing device designed for use in harsh environments. Azure Stack Edge Mini R is delivered as a hardware-as-a-service solution. Microsoft ships you a cloud-managed device that acts as network storage gateway and has a built-in Vision Processing Unit (VPU) that enables accelerated AI-inferencing.
This article provides you an overview of the Azure Stack Edge Mini R solution, key capabilities, and the scenarios where you can deploy this device.
Key capabilities
Azure Stack Edge Mini R has the following capabilities:
For information on VM workloads, seeVM overview on Azure Stack Edge.
For containerized workloads, seeKubernetes overview on Azure Stack Edge
Use cases
Here are the various scenarios where Azure Stack Edge Mini R can be used for rapid Machine Learning (ML) inferencing at the edge and preprocessing data before sending it to Azure.
Inference with Azure Machine Learning- With Azure Stack Edge Mini R, you can run ML models to get quick results that can be acted on before the data is sent to the cloud. The full data set can optionally be transferred to continue to retrain and improve your ML models. For more information on how to use the Azure Machine Learning hardware accelerated models on the Azure Stack Edge Mini R device, seeDeploy Azure Machine Learning hardware accelerated models on Azure Stack Edge Mini R.
Inference with Azure Machine Learning- With Azure Stack Edge Mini R, you can run ML models to get quick results that can be acted on before the data is sent to the cloud. The full data set can optionally be transferred to continue to retrain and improve your ML models. For more information on how to use the Azure Machine Learning hardware accelerated models on the Azure Stack Edge Mini R device, seeDeploy Azure Machine Learning hardware accelerated models on Azure Stack Edge Mini R.
Preprocess data- Transform data via compute options such as containers or virtual machines before sending it to Azure to create a more actionable dataset. Preprocessing can be used to:Aggregate data.Modify data, for example to remove personal data.Subset data to optimize storage and bandwidth, or for further analysis.Analyze and react to IoT Events.
Preprocess data- Transform data via compute options such as containers or virtual machines before sending it to Azure to create a more actionable dataset. Preprocessing can be used to:
Aggregate data.
Modify data, for example to remove personal data.
Subset data to optimize storage and bandwidth, or for further analysis.
Analyze and react to IoT Events.
Transfer data over network to Azure- Use Azure Stack Edge Mini R to easily and quickly transfer data to Azure to enable further compute and analytics or for archival purposes.
Transfer data over network to Azure- Use Azure Stack Edge Mini R to easily and quickly transfer data to Azure to enable further compute and analytics or for archival purposes.
Components
The Azure Stack Edge Mini R solution comprises an Azure Stack Edge resource, Azure Stack Edge Mini R rugged, ultra portable physical device, and a local web UI.
Azure Stack Edge Mini R physical device- An ultra portable, rugged, compute and storage device supplied by Microsoft. The device has an onboard battery and weighs less than 7 lbs.To procure a device, go to the Azure Edge Hardware Center and place an order. Azure Edge Hardware Center service lets you choose from a variety of Azure Stack Edge SKUs as per your business need. You can order multiple units of a device type, ship multiple devices to different locations, save addresses for future orders, and also track the status of your orders.Once the order is delivered, you can configure your device and create an Azure Stack Edge resource to manage the device.For more information, go toCreate an order for your Azure Stack Edge Mini R device.
Azure Stack Edge Mini R physical device- An ultra portable, rugged, compute and storage device supplied by Microsoft. The device has an onboard battery and weighs less than 7 lbs.

To procure a device, go to the Azure Edge Hardware Center and place an order. Azure Edge Hardware Center service lets you choose from a variety of Azure Stack Edge SKUs as per your business need. You can order multiple units of a device type, ship multiple devices to different locations, save addresses for future orders, and also track the status of your orders.
Once the order is delivered, you can configure your device and create an Azure Stack Edge resource to manage the device.
For more information, go toCreate an order for your Azure Stack Edge Mini R device.
Azure Stack Edge resource– A resource in the Azure portal that lets you manage a rugged, Azure Stack Edge Mini R device from a web interface that you can access from different geographical locations. Use the Azure Stack Edge resource to create and manage resources, view, and manage devices and alerts, and manage shares.
Azure Stack Edge resource– A resource in the Azure portal that lets you manage a rugged, Azure Stack Edge Mini R device from a web interface that you can access from different geographical locations. Use the Azure Stack Edge resource to create and manage resources, view, and manage devices and alerts, and manage shares.
Azure Stack Edge Mini R local web UI- A browser-based local user interface on your Azure Stack Edge Mini R device primarily intended for the initial configuration of the device. Use the local web UI also to run diagnostics, shut down and restart the Azure Stack Edge Pro device, view copy logs, and contact Microsoft Support to file a service request.The local web UI on the device currently supports the following languages with their corresponding language codes:LanguageCodeLanguageCodeLanguageCodeEnglish {default}enCzechcsGermandeSpanishesFrenchfrHungarianhuItalianitJapanesejaKoreankoDutchnlPolishplPortuguese - Brazilpt-brPortuguese - Portugalpt-ptRussianruSwedishsvTurkishtrChinese - simplifiedzh-hansChinese - traditionalzh-hant
Azure Stack Edge Mini R local web UI- A browser-based local user interface on your Azure Stack Edge Mini R device primarily intended for the initial configuration of the device. Use the local web UI also to run diagnostics, shut down and restart the Azure Stack Edge Pro device, view copy logs, and contact Microsoft Support to file a service request.
The local web UI on the device currently supports the following languages with their corresponding language codes:
Region availability
Azure Stack Edge Mini R physical device, Azure resource, and target storage account to which you transfer data do not all have to be in the same region.
Resource availability- For a list of all the regions where the Azure Stack Edge resource is available, go toAzure products available by region.
Resource availability- For a list of all the regions where the Azure Stack Edge resource is available, go toAzure products available by region.
Device availability- For a list of all the countries/regions where the Azure Stack Edge Mini R device is available, go to Availability section in the Azure Stack Edge Mini R tab forAzure Stack Edge Mini R pricing.
Device availability- For a list of all the countries/regions where the Azure Stack Edge Mini R device is available, go to Availability section in the Azure Stack Edge Mini R tab forAzure Stack Edge Mini R pricing.
Destination Storage accounts- The storage accounts that store the data are available in all Azure regions. The regions where the storage accounts store Azure Stack Edge Mini R data should be located close to where the device is located for optimum performance. A storage account located far from the device results in long latencies and slower performance.
Destination Storage accounts- The storage accounts that store the data are available in all Azure regions. The regions where the storage accounts store Azure Stack Edge Mini R data should be located close to where the device is located for optimum performance. A storage account located far from the device results in long latencies and slower performance.
Azure Stack Edge service is a non-regional service. For more information, seeRegions and Availability Zones in Azure. Azure Stack Edge service does not have dependency on a specific Azure region, making it resilient to zone-wide outages and region-wide outages.
For a discussion of considerations for choosing a region for the Azure Stack Edge service, device, and data storage, seeChoosing a region for Azure Stack Edge.
Device availability for customers
Azure Stack Edge devices are only available to customers with the following use cases:
Validated partner workloads.
Large scale deployments.
Validated partner workloads
Devices are available for customers who utilize Azure Stack Edge as an infrastructure platform to validate their solution. Partner workloads may not be supported on all devices. For details, consult your Azure Stack Edge partner.
Approved, validated partner workloads:
Azure Government– We continue to facilitate and support Azure Government customers and the Defense Industrial Base.
Large scale deployments
Azure Stack Edge is optimized for edge scenarios that typically involve hundreds or thousands of devices across a high number of locations. Our hardware as a service solution is only available for deployments of at least 100 nodes.
Next steps for existing customers with qualified workloads
Submit an Azure Stack Edge sign-up form via Azure portal.
Next steps for alternate edge solutions
Use the following links to get information about alternate infrastructure solutions:
Azure Arc – Hybrid and multicloud management solution.
Azure Local infrastructure solution.
Explore theAzure Local Integrated Systems catalog.
Next steps
Review theAzure Stack Edge Mini R system requirements.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources