Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Managed Redis (preview)?
Article
2025-04-23
1 contributor
Applies to: ✅ Azure Managed Redis
In this article
Azure Managed Redis (preview) provides an in-memory data store based on theRedis Enterprisesoftware. Redis Enterprise improves the performance and reliability of the community edition of Redis, while maintaining compatibility. Microsoft operates the service, hosted on Azure, and usable by any application within or outside of Azure.
For more information on how Azure Managed Redis is built, seeAzure Managed Redis Architecture.
Important
Azure Managed Redis is currently in PREVIEW.
See theSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previewsfor legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Azure Managed Redis can improve the performance and scalability of an application that heavily uses backend data stores. It's able to process large volumes of application requests by keeping frequently accessed data in the server memory, which can be written to and read from quickly.
Redis brings a critical low-latency and high-throughput data storage solution to modern applications. Additionally, Redis is increasingly used for noncaching applications, including data ingestion, deduplication, messaging,leaderboards,semantic caching, and as avector database.
Azure Managed Redis can be deployed standalone, or deployed along with other Azure app or database services, such as Azure Container Apps, Azure App Service, Azure Functions, Azure SQL, or Azure Cosmos DB.
Key scenarios
Azure Managed Redis improves application performance by supporting common application architecture patterns. Some of the most common include the following patterns:
Redis version
Azure Managed Redis supports Redis version 7.4.x. For more information, seeHow to upgrade the version of your Azure Managed Redis instance.
Choosing the right tier
There are four tiers of Azure Managed Redis available, each with different performance characteristics and price levels.
Three tiers are for in-memory data:
Memory OptimizedIdeal for memory-intensive use cases that require a high memory-to-vCPU ratio (8:1) but don't need the highest throughput performance. It provides a lower price point for scenarios where less processing power or throughput is necessary, making it an excellent choice for development and testing environments.
Balanced (Memory + Compute)Offers a balanced memory-to-vCPU (4:1) ratio, making it ideal for standard workloads. This tier provides a healthy balance of memory and compute resources.
Compute OptimizedDesigned for performance-intensive workloads requiring maximum throughput, with a low memory-to-vCPU (2:1) ratio. It's ideal for applications that demand the highest performance.
One tier stores data both in-memory and on-disk:
Flash OptimizedEnables Redis clusters to automatically move less frequently accessed data from memory (RAM) to NVMe storage. This reduces performance, but allows for cost-effective scaling of caches with large datasets.
Note
For more information on how the Flash Optimized tier is architected, seeAzure Managed Redis Architecture
Important
You can also use thedata persistencefeature to store data on-disk for the in-memory tiers. Data persistence stores a backup copy of data on-disk for quick recovery if you experience  an unexpected outage. This is different than the Flash Optimized tier, which is designed to store data on-disk for typical operations.
Storing some data on-disk using the Flash Optimized tier doesn't increase data resiliency. You can use data persistence on the Flash Optimized tier as well.
For instructions on how to scale between tiers and SKUs, seeScale an Azure Managed Redis instance.
Tiers and SKUs at a glance

For pricing information, see theAzure Managed Redis Pricing
Feature comparison
The following table helps describe some of the features supported by tier:
Important
The Balanced B0 and B1 SKU options don't support active geo-replication.
Important
SLA is only available at GA, and isn't available during preview.
Note
Scaling down support is limited in some situations. For more information, seePrerequisites/limitations of scaling Azure Managed Redis.
Other considerations when picking a tier
Network performance: If you have a workload that requires high throughput, network bandwidth might cause a bottleneck. You can increase bandwidth by moving up to a higher performance tier or by moving to a large instance size. Larger size instances have more bandwidth because of the underlying VM that hosts the cache. Higher bandwidth limits help you avoid network saturation that cause time-outs in your application. For more information on bandwidth performance, seePerformance testing
Maximum number of client connections: Each SKU has a maximum number of client connections. This limit increases with higher performance tiers and larger instances sizes. For more information on the limit for each SKU, seeAzure Managed Redis Pricing.
High availability: Azure Managed Redis provides multiplehigh availabilityoptions. The SLA only covers connectivity to the cache endpoints. The SLA doesn't cover protection from data loss. For more information on the SLA, see theSLA. It's possible to disable high availability in an Azure Managed Redis instance. This lowers the price but results in data loss and downtime. We only recommend disabling high availability for dev/test scenarios.
Other pricing considerations
Important
Azure Managed Redis Enterprise requires an IP address for each cache instance. Currently, the IP address charge is absorbed by Azure Managed Redis and not passed on to customers. This can change in the future. For more information, seeIP address pricing.
Important
Using active geo-replication produces data transfer between Azure regions. These bandwidth charges are currently absorbed by Azure Managed Redis and not passed on to customers. This might change in the future. For more information, seeBandwidth pricing.
Availability by region
Azure Managed Redis is continually expanding into new regions.
To check the availability by region, seeProducts available by region.
Migration from Azure Cache for Redis
For more information about migrating from Azure Cache for Redis to Azure Managed Redis, seeMove from Azure Cache for Redis to Azure Managed Redis (preview).
Related content
Create an Azure Managed Redis instance
Azure Managed Redis (preview) Architecture
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources