Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
DICOM Service API v2 Changes
Article
2023-11-22
5 contributors
In this article
This reference guide provides you with a summary of the changes in the V2 API of the DICOM® service. To see the full set of capabilities in v2, see theDICOM Conformance Statement v2.
Summary of changes in v2
Store
In previous versions, a Store request fails if any of therequiredorsearchable attributesfails validation. Beginning with v2, the request fails only ifrequired attributesfail validation.
Failed validation of attributes not required by the API results in the file being stored with a warning in the response. Warnings result in an HTTP return code of202 Acceptedand the response payload contains theWarningReasontag (0008, 1196).
202 Accepted
WarningReason
0008, 1196
A warning is given about each failing attribute per instance. When a sequence contains an attribute that fails validation, or when there are multiple issues with a single attribute, only the first failing attribute reason is noted.
There are some notable behaviors for optional attributes that fail validation:
Searches for the attribute that failed validation returns the study/series/instance if the value is corrected in one of the few waysmentioned here.
The attributes aren't returned when retrieving metadata via WADO/metadataendpoints.
/metadata
Retrieving a study/series/instance always returns the original binary files with the original attributes, even if those attributes failed validation.
If an attribute is padded with nulls, the attribute is indexed when searchable and is stored as is in dicom+json metadata. No validation warning is provided.
Retrieve
Single frame retrieval is supported by adding the followingAcceptheader:
Accept
application/octet-stream; transfer-syntax=*
application/octet-stream; transfer-syntax=*
Search
In the v1 API and continued for v2, if anextended query taghas any errors, because one or more of the existing instances had a tag value that couldn't be indexed, then subsequent search queries containing the extended query tag returnerroneous-dicom-attributesas detailed in thedocumentation. However, tags (also known as attributes) with validation warnings from STOW-RS arenotincluded in this header. If a store request results in validation warnings forsearchable attributesat the time the instance was stored, those attributes may not be used to search for the stored instance. However, anysearchable attributesthat failed validation will be able to return results if the values are overwritten by instances in the same study/series that are stored after the failed one, or if the values are already stored correctly by a previous instance. If the attribute values are not overwritten, then they will not produce any search results.
erroneous-dicom-attributes
An attribute can be corrected in the following ways:
Delete the stored instance and upload a new instance with the corrected data
Upload a new instance in the same study/series with corrected data
The set of attributes returned by default has been reduced to improve performance. See the detailed list in thesearch responsedocumentation.
Attributes added newly to default tags.
Attributes removed from default tags.
All the removed tags are part of additional tags which will be returned when queried withincludefield = all.
includefield = all
When an attribute was stored using null padding, it can be searched for with or without the null padding in uri encoding. Results retrieved are for attributes stored both with and without null padding.
Operations
completed
succeeded
To align withMicrosoft's REST API guidelines, thecompletedstatus has been renamed tosucceeded.
completed
succeeded
Change Feed
The Change Feed API now accepts optionalstartTimeandendTimeparameters to help scope the results. Changes within a time range can still be paginated using the existingoffsetandlimitparameters. The offset is relative to the time window defined bystartTimeandendTime. For example, the fifth change feed entry starting from 7/24/2023 at 09:00 AM UTC would use the query string?startTime=2023-07-24T09:00:00Z&offset=5.
startTime
endTime
offset
limit
startTime
endTime
?startTime=2023-07-24T09:00:00Z&offset=5
For v2, it's recommended to always include a time range to improve performance.
Note
DICOM®is the registered trademark of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association for its Standards publications relating to digital communications of medical information.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources