Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
NCCads_H100_v5 sizes series
Article
2024-10-18
2 contributors
In this article
The NCCads H100 v5 series of virtual machines are a new addition to the Azure GPU family. In this VM SKU, Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) spans confidential VM on the CPU and attached GPU, enabling secure offload of data, models, and computation to the GPU.
The NCCads H100 v5 series is powered by 4th-generation AMD EPYC™ Genoa processors and NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU. These VMs feature 1 NVIDIA H100 NVL GPUs with 94 GB memory, 40 non-multithreaded AMD EPYC Genoa processor cores, and 320 GiB of system memory. These VMs are ideal for real-world Applied AI workloads, such as:
GPU-accelerated analytics and databases
Batch inferencing with heavy pre- and post-processing
Machine Learning (ML) development
Video processing
AI/ML web services
Host specifications
Feature support
Premium Storage: SupportedPremium Storage caching: SupportedLive Migration: Not SupportedMemory Preserving Updates: Not SupportedGeneration 2 VMs: SupportedGeneration 1 VMs: Not SupportedAccelerated Networking: Not SupportedEphemeral OS Disk: SupportedNested Virtualization: Not Supported
Sizes in series
Basics
Local storage
Remote storage
Network
Accelerators
vCPUs (Qty.) and Memory for each size
Check vCPU quotas
Local (temp) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Temp disk speed often differs between RR (Random Read) and RW (Random Write) operations. RR operations are typically faster than RW operations. The RW speed is usually slower than the RR speed on series where only the RR speed value is listed.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Remote (uncached) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
2Special Storage refers to eitherUltra DiskorPremium SSD v2storage.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Network interface info for each size
Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Expected network bandwidth is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines.
To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Accelerator (GPUs, FPGAs, etc.) info for each size
Creating VM
To get started with NCCads H100 v5 VMs and for information regarding confidential GPU driver and attesetation configuration, seeconfidential GPU Configuration
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources