Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Functions?
Article
2025-03-25
32 contributors
In this article
Azure Functions is a serverless solution that allows you to build robust apps while using less code, and with less infrastructure and lower costs. Instead of worrying about deploying and maintaining servers, you can use the cloud infrastructure to provide all the up-to-date resources needed to keep your applications running.
You focus on the code that matters most to you, in the most productive language for you, and Azure Functions handles the rest. For a list of supported languages, seeSupported languages in Azure Functions.
Scenarios
Functions provides a comprehensive set of event-driventriggers and bindingsthat connect your functions to other services without having to write extra code.
The following list includes common integrated scenarios that use Functions.
These scenarios allow you to build event-driven systems using modern architectural patterns. For more information, seeAzure Functions scenarios.
Development lifecycle
With Functions, you write your function code in your preferred language using your favorite development tools, and then deploy your code to the Azure cloud. Functions provides native support for developing inC#, Java, JavaScript, PowerShell, or Python, plus the ability to usecustom handlersfor other languages, such as Rust and Go.
Functions integrates directly with Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Maven, and other popular development tools to enable seamless debugging anddeployments.
Functions also integrates with Azure Monitor and Azure Application Insights to provide comprehensive monitoring and analysis of yourfunctions in the cloud.
Hosting options
Functions provides varioushosting optionsfor your business needs and application workload.Event-driven scaling hosting optionsrange from fully serverless, where you only pay for execution time (Consumption plan), to always-warm instances kept ready for the fastest response times (Premium plan).
When you have excess App Service hosting resources, you can host your functions in an existing App Service plan. This kind of Dedicated hosting plan is also a good choice when you need predictable scaling behaviors and costs from your functions.
If you want complete control over your runtime environment and dependencies, you can even deploy your functions in containers that you can fully customize. Your custom containers can be hosted by Functions, deployed as part of a microservices architecture in Azure Container Apps, or even self-hosted in Kubernetes.
Related content
Azure Functions scenarios
Get started with Azure Functions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources