Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
DPP (UK)
Article
2022-09-25
1 contributor
In this article
DPP overview
Broadcasters are confronting increasingly frequent cyber attacks against their websites, IT infrastructure, and systems. In response to these threats, theDigital Production Partnership(DPP) partnered with theNorth American Broadcasters Association(NABA) to develop the NABA DPPBroadcasters Cyber Security Requirements for Suppliers. Chief information security officers from UK broadcasters have endorsed these requirements as the minimum set of requirements for cyber security.
The DPP then worked with broadcasters and supplier security experts to create a self-assessment program designed to enable suppliers to demonstrate commitment to achieving security best practices. This work led to the establishment of a formal Committed to Security Program that DPP launched in October 2017 with two different marks: Broadcast and Production. A checklist and user guide areprovided by the DPPfor each of the two marks.
Azure and DPP
Microsoft Azure has been awarded the DPP Committed to Security Mark for Broadcast after completing the DPP self-assessment questionnaire, the Committed to Security Broadcast Checklist. Microsoft Azure submission required documenting control implementation details for a set of security requirements spanning documentation and testing, authentication, and security.Eurofins Digital Testing, a quality assurance expert and DPP member, reviewed and signed off on the Microsoft response, and submitted it to the DPP for final validation and display on theDPP committed to securitylanding page. The Azure Committed to Security Broadcast mark is valid for one year and renewed annually.
The DPP validation means that broadcasters and other media customers using Azure can be confident that the robust, secure, and resilient cloud services available to them can help meet the unique demands of the broadcast industry, from program development to transmission.
Assessment documentation
You can download and review the Azure Committed to Security Broadcast checklist:
Azure Committed to Security Broadcast Checklist
How to implement
Azure Media Servicesdocumentation is intended to help you build solutions that achieve high-definition video encoding and broadcast-quality video streaming.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Microsoft Intelligent Media and Entertainment
Digital Production Partnership(DPP)
DPP Committed to Security Program
North American Broadcasters Association(NABA)
NABA DPPBroadcasters Cyber Security Requirements for Suppliers
DPPCommitted to Security checklist and user guide
Azure Virtual Desktop infrastructure hardening guideby Independent Security Evaluators (ISE)
Editorial and asset management hardening guide for Azureby Independent Security Evaluators (ISE)
Azure media hardening guide for 3D graphics renderingby Independent Security Evaluators (ISE)
Additional resources