Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Pricing for Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL
Article
2024-08-14
3 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL (powered by theCitus database
extensionto PostgreSQL)
For the most up-to-date general pricing information, see the servicepricing page.
To see the cost for the configuration you want, theAzure portalshows the monthly cost on theConfiguretab based on the options you
select. If you don't have an Azure subscription, you can use the Azure pricing
calculator to get an estimated price. On theAzure pricing calculatorwebsite, selectAdd items, expand theDatabasescategory, and chooseAzure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQLto customize the
options.
Prepay for compute resources with reserved capacity
Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL helps you save money by prepaying for compute resources compared to pay-as-you-go prices. With Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity, you make an upfront commitment on cluster for a one- or three-year period to get a significant discount on the compute costs. To purchase Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity, you need to specify the Azure region, reservation term, and billing frequency.
You don't need to assign the reservation to specific clusters. An already running cluster or ones that are newly deployed automatically get the benefit of reserved pricing. By purchasing a reservation, you're prepaying for the compute costs for one year or three years. As soon as you buy a reservation, the Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL compute charges that match the reservation attributes are no longer charged at the pay-as-you-go rates.
A reservation doesn't cover software, networking, or storage charges associated with the clusters. At the end of the reservation term, the billing benefit expires, and the clusters are billed at the pay-as-you go price. Reservations don't autorenew. For pricing information, see theAzure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity offering.
You can buy Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity in theAzure portal. Pay for the reservationup front or with monthly payments. To buy the reserved capacity:
You must be in the owner role for at least one Enterprise Agreement (EA) or individual subscription with pay-as-you-go rates.
For Enterprise Agreement subscriptions,Add Reserved Instancesmust be enabled in theEA Portal. Or, if that setting is disabled, you must be an Enterprise Agreement admin on the subscription.
For the Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program, only the admin agents or sales agents can purchase Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity.
For information on how Enterprise Agreement customers and pay-as-you-go customers are charged for reservation purchases, see:
Understand Azure reservation usage for your Enterprise Agreement enrollment
Understand Azure reservation usage for your pay-as-you-go subscription
Determine the right cluster size before purchase
The size of reservation is based on the total amount of compute used by the existing or soon-to-be-deployed coordinator and worker nodes in clusters within a specific region.
For example, let's suppose you're running one cluster with 16 vCore coordinator and three 8 vCore worker nodes. Further, let's assume you plan to deploy within the next month an additional cluster with a 32 vCore coordinator and two 4 vCore worker nodes. Let's also suppose you need these resources for at least one year.
In this case, purchase a one-year reservation for:
Total 16 vCores + 32 vCores = 48 vCores for coordinator nodes
Total 3 nodes x 8 vCores + 2 nodes x 4 vCores = 24 + 8 = 32 vCores for worker nodes
Ifhigh availability (HA)is enabled on the cluster, number of vCores used by that cluster doubles. For instance, if HA is going to be enabled on a cluster with 16 vCores on coordinator and two 8 vCore worker nodes, calculation would be as follows:
Coordinator: 16 vCores x 2 (HA) = 32 vCores
Worker nodes: 8 vCores x 2 nodes x 2 (HA) = 32 vCores
Calculation for eachcluster read replicaneeds to be done separately and purchased in the region where that replica is located. Each cluster read replica has compute that can be configured independently of its primary cluster and can be located inany supported region.
If you need to purchase reserved capacity for Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL single nodes, you would need to select coordinator vCores.
Note
You can prepay for compute resources on Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL single nodes with regular compute but reservations are not available for single nodes with burstable compute.
Buy Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity
Sign in to theAzure portal.
SelectAll services>Reservations.
SelectAdd. In thePurchase reservationspane, selectAzure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQLto purchase a new reservation for your PostgreSQL databases.
Select theAzure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL Computetype to purchase, and clickSelect.
Review the quantity for the selected compute type on theProductstab.
Continue to theBuy + Reviewtab to finish your purchase.
The following table describes required fields.
Cancel, exchange, or refund reservations
You can cancel, exchange, or refund reservations with certain limitations. For more information, seeSelf-service exchanges and refunds for Azure reservations.
vCore size flexibility
vCore size flexibility helps you scale up or down coordinator and worker nodes within a region, without losing the reserved capacity benefit.
Need help? Contact us
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Next steps
The vCore reservation discount is applied automatically to the number of clusters that match the Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity reservation scope and attributes. You can update the scope of the Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL reserved capacity reservation through the Azure portal, PowerShell, the Azure CLI, or the API.
To learn more about Azure reservations, see the following articles:
What are Azure reservations?
Manage Azure reservations
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise Agreement enrollment
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources