Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Backup and restore plan to protect against ransomware
Article
2024-10-16
12 contributors
In this article
Ransomware attacks deliberately encrypt or erase data and systems to force your organization to pay money to attackers. These attacks target your data, your backups, and also key documentation required for you to recover without paying the attackers (as a means to increase the chances your organization will pay).
This article addresses what to do before an attack to protect your critical business systems and during an attack to ensure a rapid recovery of business operations.
What is ransomware?
Ransomware is a type of extortion attack that encrypts files and folders, preventing access to important data and systems. Attackers use ransomware to extort money from victims by demanding money, usually in the form of cryptocurrencies, in exchange for a decryption key or in exchange for not releasing sensitive data to the dark web or the public internet.
While early ransomware mostly used malware that spread with phishing or between devices, human-operated ransomware has emerged where a gang of active attackers, driven by human attack operators, target all systems in an organization (rather than a single device or set of devices). An attack can:
Encrypt your data
Exfiltrate your data
Corrupt your backups
The ransomware leverages the attackers’ knowledge of common system and security misconfigurations and vulnerabilities to infiltrate the organization, navigate the enterprise network, and adapt to the environment and its weaknesses as they go.
Ransomware can be staged to exfiltrate your data first, over several weeks or months, before the ransomware actually executes on a specific date.
Ransomware can also slowly encrypt your data while keeping your key on the system. With your key still available, your data is usable to you and the ransomware goes unnoticed. Your backups, though, are of the encrypted data. Once all of your data is encrypted and recent backups are also of encrypted data, your key is removed so you can no longer read your data.
The real damage is often done when the attack exfiltrates files while leaving backdoors in the network for future malicious activity—and these risks persist whether or not the ransom is paid. These attacks can be catastrophic to business operations and difficult to clean up, requiring complete adversary eviction to protect against future attacks. Unlike early forms of ransomware that only required malware remediation, human-operated ransomware can continue to threaten your business operations after the initial encounter.
Impact of an attack
The impact of a ransomware attack on any organization is difficult to quantify accurately. Depending on the scope of the attack, the impact could include:
Loss of data access
Business operation disruption
Financial loss
Intellectual property theft
Compromised customer trust or tarnished reputation
Legal expenses
How can you protect yourself?
The best way to prevent falling victim to ransomware is to implement preventive measures and have tools that protect your organization from every step that attackers take to infiltrate your systems.
You can reduce your on-premises exposure by moving your organization to a cloud service. Microsoft has invested in native security capabilities that make Microsoft Azure resilient against ransomware attacks and helps organizations defeat ransomware attack techniques. For a comprehensive view of ransomware and extortion and how to protect your organization, use the information in theHuman-Operated Ransomware Mitigation Project PlanPowerPoint presentation.
You should assume that at some point in time you'll fall victim to a ransomware attack. One of the most important steps you can take to protect your data and avoid paying a ransom is to have a reliable backup and restore plan for your business-critical information. Since ransomware attackers have invested heavily into neutralizing backup applications and operating system features like volume shadow copy, it's critical to have backups that are inaccessible to a malicious attacker.
Azure Backup
Azure Backupprovides security to your backup environment, both when your data is in transit and at rest. With Azure Backup,you can back up:
On-premises files, folders, and system state
Entire Windows/Linux VMs
Azure Managed Disks
Azure file shares to a storage account
SQL Server databases running on Azure VMs
The backup data is stored in Azure storage and the guest or attacker has no direct access to backup storage or its contents. With virtual machine backup, the backup snapshot creation and storage is done by Azure fabric where the guest or attacker has no involvement other than quiescing the workload for application consistent backups. With SQL and SAP HANA, the backup extension gets temporary access to write to specific blobs. In this way, even in a compromised environment, existing backups can't be tampered with or deleted by the attacker.
Azure Backup provides built-in monitoring and alerting capabilities to view and configure actions for events related to Azure Backup. Backup Reports serve as a one-stop destination for tracking usage, auditing of backups and restores, and identifying key trends at different levels of granularity. Using Azure Backup's monitoring and reporting tools can alert you to any unauthorized, suspicious, or malicious activity as soon as they occur.
Checks have been added to make sure only valid users can perform various operations. These include adding an extra layer of authentication. As part of adding an extra layer of authentication for critical operations, you're prompted to enter a security PIN beforemodifying online backups.
Learn more about thesecurity featuresbuilt into Azure Backup.
Validate backups
Validate that your backup is good as your backup is created and before you restore. We recommend that you use aRecovery Services vault, which is a storage entity in Azure that houses data. The data is typically copies of data, or configuration information for virtual machines (VMs), workloads, servers, or workstations. You can use Recovery Services vaults to hold backup data for various Azure services such as IaaS VMs (Linux or Windows) and Azure SQL databases as well as on-premises assets. Recovery Services vaults make it easy to organize your backup data and provide features such as:
Enhanced capabilities to ensure you can secure your backups, and safely recover data, even if production and backup servers are compromised.Learn more.
Monitoring for your hybrid IT environment (Azure IaaS VMs and on-premises assets) from a central portal.Learn more.
Compatibility with Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC), which restricts backup and restore access to a defined set of user roles. Azure RBAC provides various built-in roles, and Azure Backup has three built-in roles to manage recovery points.Learn more.
Soft delete protection, even if a malicious actor deletes a backup (or backup data is accidentally deleted). Backup data is retained for 14 additional days, allowing the recovery of a backup item with no data loss.Learn more.
Cross Region Restore which allows you to restore Azure VMs in a secondary region, which is an Azure paired region. You can restore the replicated data in the secondary region any time. This enables you to restore the secondary region data for audit-compliance, and during outage scenarios, without waiting for Azure to declare a disaster (unlike the GRS settings of the vault).Learn more.
Note
There are two types of vaults in Azure Backup. In addition to the Recovery Services vaults, there are alsoBackup vaultsthat house data for newer workloads supported by Azure Backup.
What to do before an attack
As mentioned earlier, you should assume that at some point in time you'll fall victim to a ransomware attack. Identifying your business-critical systems and applying best practices before an attack will get you back up and running as quickly as possible.
Determine what is most important to you
Ransomware can attack while you're planning for an attack so your first priority should be to identify the business-critical systems that are most important to you and begin performing regular backups on those systems.
In our experience, the five most important applications to customers fall into the following categories in this priority order:
Identity systems – required for users to access any systems (including all others described below) such as Active Directory,Microsoft Entra Connect, AD domain controllers
Human life – any system that supports human life or could put it at risk such as medical or life support systems, safety systems (ambulance, dispatch systems, traffic light control), large machinery, chemical/biological systems, production of food or personal products, and others
Financial systems – systems that process monetary transactions and keep the business operating, such as payment systems and related databases, financial system for quarterly reporting
Product or service enablement – any systems that are required to provide the business services or produce/deliver physical products that your customers pay you for, factory control systems, product delivery/dispatch systems, and similar
Security (minimum) – You should also prioritize the security systems required to monitor for attacks and provide minimum security services. This should be focused on ensuring that the current attacks (or easy opportunistic ones) aren't immediately able to gain (or regain) access to your restored systems
Your prioritized back up list also becomes your prioritized restore list. Once you’ve identified your critical systems and are performing regular backups, then take steps to reduce your exposure level.
Steps to take before an attack
Apply these best practices before an attack.
What to do during an attack
If you're attacked, your prioritized back up list becomes your prioritized restore list. Before you restore, validate again that your backup is good. You may be able to look for malware inside the backup.
Steps to take during an attack
Apply these best practices during an attack.
Post attack or simulation
After a ransomware attack or an incident response simulation, take the following steps to improve your backup and restore plans as well as your security posture:
Identify lessons learned where the process didn't work well (and opportunities to simplify, accelerate, or otherwise improve the process)
Perform root cause analysis on the biggest challenges (at enough detail to ensure solutions address the right problem — considering people, process, and technology)
Investigate and remediate the original breach (engage theMicrosoft Incident Response team (formerly DART)to help)
Update your backup and restore strategy based on lessons learned and opportunities — prioritizing based on highest impact and quickest implementation steps first
Next steps
For best practices on deploying ransomware protection, see Rapidly protect against ransomware and extortion.
Key industry information:
2023 Microsoft Digital Defense Report(see pages 17-26)
Microsoft Azure:
Help protect from ransomware with Microsoft Azure Backup(26-minute video)
Help protect from ransomware with Microsoft Azure Backup(26-minute video)
Recovering from systemic identity compromise
Recovering from systemic identity compromise
Advanced multistage attack detection in Microsoft Sentinel
Advanced multistage attack detection in Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft 365:
Recover from a ransomware attack
Malware and ransomware protection
Protect your Windows 10 PC from ransomware
Handling ransomware in SharePoint Online
Microsoft Defender XDR:
Find ransomware with advanced hunting
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources