Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Security in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server
Article
2025-04-23
12 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server
Multiple layers of security are available to help protect the data on your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance. This article outlines those security options.
As organizations increasingly rely on data stored in databases to drive critical decision-making activities that drive competitive advantage, the need for solid database security measures has never been more important.
A security lapse  can trigger catastrophic consequences, including exposing confidential data, causing reputational damage to organization.
Information protection and encryption
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server encrypts data in two ways:
Data in transit: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server encrypts in-transit data with Secure Sockets Layer and Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS). Encryption is enforced by default. For more detailed information  on connection security with SSL\TLS, see thisdocumentation. For better security, you might choose to enableSCRAM authentication in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.Althoughit is not recommended, if needed, due to legacy client incompatibility, you have an option to allow both TLS\SSL and non-TLS/SSL connections to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server by updating therequire_secure_transportserver parameter to OFF. You can also set the TLS version by settingssl_max_protocol_versionserver parameters.
Data in transit: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server encrypts in-transit data with Secure Sockets Layer and Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS). Encryption is enforced by default. For more detailed information  on connection security with SSL\TLS, see thisdocumentation. For better security, you might choose to enableSCRAM authentication in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Althoughit is not recommended, if needed, due to legacy client incompatibility, you have an option to allow both TLS\SSL and non-TLS/SSL connections to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server by updating therequire_secure_transportserver parameter to OFF. You can also set the TLS version by settingssl_max_protocol_versionserver parameters.
require_secure_transport
ssl_max_protocol_version
Data at rest: For storage encryption, Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server uses the FIPS 140-2 validated cryptographic module. Data is encrypted on disk, including backups and the temporary files created while queries are running.The service usesGalois/Counter Mode (GCM)mode with AES 256-bit cipher included in Azure storage encryption, and the keys are system managed. This is similar to other at-rest encryption technologies, like transparent data encryption in SQL Server or Oracle databases. Storage encryption is always on and can't be disabled.
Data at rest: For storage encryption, Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server uses the FIPS 140-2 validated cryptographic module. Data is encrypted on disk, including backups and the temporary files created while queries are running.
The service usesGalois/Counter Mode (GCM)mode with AES 256-bit cipher included in Azure storage encryption, and the keys are system managed. This is similar to other at-rest encryption technologies, like transparent data encryption in SQL Server or Oracle databases. Storage encryption is always on and can't be disabled.
Network security
When you're running Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server, you have two main networking options:
Private access: You can deploy your server into an Azure virtual network. Azure virtual networks help provide private and secure network communication. Resources in a virtual network can communicate through private IP addresses. For more information, see thenetworking overview for Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.Security rules in network security groups enable you to filter the type of network traffic that can flow in and out of virtual network subnets and network interfaces. For more information, see theoverview of network security groups.
Private access: You can deploy your server into an Azure virtual network. Azure virtual networks help provide private and secure network communication. Resources in a virtual network can communicate through private IP addresses. For more information, see thenetworking overview for Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Security rules in network security groups enable you to filter the type of network traffic that can flow in and out of virtual network subnets and network interfaces. For more information, see theoverview of network security groups.
Public access: The server can be accessed through a public endpoint. The public endpoint is a publicly resolvable DNS address. Access to it's secured through a firewall that blocks all connections by default.IP firewall rules grant access to servers based on the originating IP address of each request. For more information, see theoverview of firewall rules.
Public access: The server can be accessed through a public endpoint. The public endpoint is a publicly resolvable DNS address. Access to it's secured through a firewall that blocks all connections by default.
IP firewall rules grant access to servers based on the originating IP address of each request. For more information, see theoverview of firewall rules.
Microsoft Defender for Cloud support
Microsoft Defender for open-source relational databasesdetects anomalous activities indicating unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit databases. Defender for Cloud providessecurity alertson anomalous activities so that you can detect potential threats and respond to them as they occur.
When you enable this plan, Defender for Cloud provides alerts when it detects anomalous database access and query patterns and suspicious database activities.
These alerts appear in Defender for Cloud's security alerts page and include:
Details of the suspicious activity that triggered them
The associated MITRE ATT&CK tactic
Recommended actions for how to investigate and mitigate the threat
Options for continuing your investigations with Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Defender for Cloud and Brute Force Attacks
A brute force attack is among the most common and fairly successful hacking methods, despite being least sophisticated hacking methods. The theory behind such an attack is that if you take an infinite number of attempts to guess a password, you're bound to be right eventually. When Microsoft Defender for Cloud detects a brute force attack, it triggers analertto bring you awareness that a brute force attack took place. It also can separate simple brute force attack from brute force attack on a valid user or a successful brute force attack.
To get alerts from the Microsoft Defender plan, you'll first need toenable itas shown in the next section.
Enable enhanced security with Microsoft Defender for Cloud
From theAzure portal, navigate to Security menu in the left pane
Pick Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Select Enable in the right pane.

Note
If you have the "open-source relational databases" feature enabled in your Microsoft Defender plan, you will observe that Microsoft Defender is automatically enabled by default for your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server resource.
Access management
The best way to manage Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server database access permissions at scale is using the concept ofroles. A role can be either a database user or a group of database users. Roles can own the database objects and assign privileges on those objects to other roles to control who has access to which objects. It's also possible to grant membership in a role to another role, thus allowing the member role to use privileges assigned to another role.
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server lets you grant permissions directly to the database users.As a good security practice, it can be recommended that you create roles with specific sets of permissions based on minimum application and access requirements. You can then assign the appropriate roles to each user. Roles are used to enforce aleast privilege modelfor accessing database objects.
The Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance is created with the three default roles defined, in addition to built-in roles PostgreSQL creates. You can see these roles by running the command:
SELECT rolname FROM pg_roles;
SELECT rolname FROM pg_roles;
The roles are listed below:
azure_pg_admin
azuresu
administrator role
While you're creating the Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance, you provide credentials for anadministrator role. This administrator role can be used to create morePostgreSQL roles.
For example, below we can create an example user/role called 'demouser'
CREATE USER demouser PASSWORD password123;
CREATE USER demouser PASSWORD password123;
Theadministrator roleshould never be used by the application.
In cloud-based PaaS environments access to an Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server superuser account is restricted to control plane operations only by cloud operators. Therefore, theazure_pg_adminaccount exists as a pseudo-superuser account. Your administrator role is a member of theazure_pg_adminrole.However, the server admin account isn't part of theazuresurole, which has superuser privileges and is used to perform control plane operations. Since this service is a managed PaaS service, only Microsoft is part of the superuser role.
azure_pg_admin
azure_pg_admin
azuresu
You can periodically audit the list of roles in your server. For example, you can connect usingpsqlclient and query thepg_rolestable, which lists all the roles along with privileges such as create other roles, create databases, replication etc.
psql
pg_roles
select * from pg_roles where rolname='demouser';
-[ RECORD 1 ]--+---------
rolname        | demouser
rolsuper       | f
rolinherit     | t
rolcreaterole  | f
rolcreatedb    | f
rolcanlogin    | f
rolreplication | f
rolconnlimit   | -1
rolpassword    | ********
rolvaliduntil  |
rolbypassrls   | f
rolconfig      |
oid            | 24827
select * from pg_roles where rolname='demouser';
-[ RECORD 1 ]--+---------
rolname        | demouser
rolsuper       | f
rolinherit     | t
rolcreaterole  | f
rolcreatedb    | f
rolcanlogin    | f
rolreplication | f
rolconnlimit   | -1
rolpassword    | ********
rolvaliduntil  |
rolbypassrls   | f
rolconfig      |
oid            | 24827
Important
Recently, the ability to createCAST commandswas enabled in Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server. To run the CREATE CAST statement, the user must be a member of theazure_pg_admingroup. Please be aware that it is not currently possible to drop a CAST once it has been created.
Audit logging in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible serveris also available with Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server to track activity in your databases.
Control schema access
Newly created databases in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server have a default set of privileges in the database's public schema that allow all database users and roles to create objects. To better limit application user access to the databases that you create on your Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instance, we recommend that you consider revoking these default public privileges. After doing so, you can then grant specific privileges for database users on a more granular basis. For example:
To prevent application database users from creating objects in the public schema, revoke create privileges topublicschema frompublicrole.REVOKE CREATE ON SCHEMA public FROM PUBLIC;
To prevent application database users from creating objects in the public schema, revoke create privileges topublicschema frompublicrole.
public
public
REVOKE CREATE ON SCHEMA public FROM PUBLIC;
REVOKE CREATE ON SCHEMA public FROM PUBLIC;
Next, create new database.CREATE DATABASE Test_db;
Next, create new database.
CREATE DATABASE Test_db;
CREATE DATABASE Test_db;
Revoke all privileges from the PUBLIC schema on this new database.REVOKE ALL ON DATABASE Test_db FROM PUBLIC;
Revoke all privileges from the PUBLIC schema on this new database.
REVOKE ALL ON DATABASE Test_db FROM PUBLIC;
REVOKE ALL ON DATABASE Test_db FROM PUBLIC;
Create custom role for application db usersCREATE ROLE Test_db_user;
Create custom role for application db users
CREATE ROLE Test_db_user;
CREATE ROLE Test_db_user;
Give database users with this role the ability to connect to the database.GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE Test_db TO Test_db_user;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE Test_db TO Test_db_user;
Give database users with this role the ability to connect to the database.
GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE Test_db TO Test_db_user;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE Test_db TO Test_db_user;
GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE Test_db TO Test_db_user;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE Test_db TO Test_db_user;
Create database userCREATE USER user1 PASSWORD 'Password_to_change'
Create database user
CREATE USER user1 PASSWORD 'Password_to_change'
CREATE USER user1 PASSWORD 'Password_to_change'
Assign role, with its connect and select privileges to userGRANT Test_db_user TO user1;
Assign role, with its connect and select privileges to user
GRANT Test_db_user TO user1;
GRANT Test_db_user TO user1;
In this example, useruser1can connect and has all privileges in our test databaseTest_db, but not any other db on the server. It would be recommended further, instead of giving this user\roleALL PRIVILEGESon that database and its objects, to provide more selective permissions, such asSELECT,INSERT,EXECUTE, etc. For more information about privileges in PostgreSQL databases, see theGRANTandREVOKEcommands in the PostgreSQL docs.
Public schema ownership changes in PostgreSQL 15
From Postgres version 15, ownership of the public schema has been changed to the new pg_database_owner role. It enables every database owner to own the database’s public schema.More information can be found inPostgreSQL release notes.
PostgreSQL 16 changes with role based security
In PostgreSQL database role can have many attributes that define its privileges.One such attribute is theCREATEROLEattribute, which is important to PostgreSQL database management of users and roles. In PostgreSQL 16 significant changes were introduced to this attribute.
In PostgreSQL 16, users withCREATEROLEattribute no longer have the ability to hand out membership in any role to anyone; instead, like other users, without this attribute, they can only hand out memberships in roles for which they possessADMIN OPTION. Also, in PostgreSQL 16, theCREATEROLEattribute still allows a nonsuperuser the ability to provision new users, however they can only drop users that they themselves created. Attempts to drop users, who were not created by a user with theCREATEROLEattribute, will result in an error.
PostgreSQL 16 also introduced new and improved built-in roles. Newpg_use_reserved_connectionsrole in PostgreSQL 16 allows the use of connection slots reserved via reserved_connections.Thepg_create_subscriptionrole allows superusers to create subscriptions.
Important
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server does not allow users to be grantedpg_write_all_dataattribute, which allows user to write all data (tables, views, sequences), as if having INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE rights on those objects, and USAGE rights on all schemas, even without having it explicitly granted. As a workaround recommended to grant similar permissions on a more finite level per database and object.
Row level security
Row level security (RLS)is an Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server security feature that allows database administrators to define policies to control how specific rows of data display and operate for one or more roles. Row level security is an additional filter you can apply to an Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server database table. When a user tries to perform an action on a table, this filter is applied before the query criteria or other filtering, and the data is narrowed or rejected according to your security policy. You can create row level security policies for specific commands likeSELECT,INSERT,UPDATE, andDELETE, specify it for ALL commands. Use cases for row level security include PCI compliant implementations, classified environments, and shared hosting / multitenant applications.
Only users withSET ROW SECURITYrights might apply row security rights to a table. The table owner might set row security on a table. LikeOVERRIDE ROW SECURITYthis is currently an implicit right. Row-level security doesn't override existingGRANTpermissions, it adds a finer grained level of control. For example, settingROW SECURITY FOR SELECTto allow a given user to give rows would only give that user access if the user also hasSELECTprivileges on the column or table in question.
SET ROW SECURITY
OVERRIDE ROW SECURITY
GRANT
ROW SECURITY FOR SELECT
SELECT
Here's an example showing how to create a policy that ensures only members of the custom created"manager"rolecan access only the rows for a specific account. The code in the following example was shared in thePostgreSQL documentation.
CREATE TABLE accounts (manager text, company text, contact_email text);

ALTER TABLE accounts ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;

CREATE POLICY account_managers ON accounts TO managers
    USING (manager = current_user);
CREATE TABLE accounts (manager text, company text, contact_email text);

ALTER TABLE accounts ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;

CREATE POLICY account_managers ON accounts TO managers
    USING (manager = current_user);
The USING clause implicitly adds aWITH CHECKclause, ensuring that members of the manager role can't performSELECT,DELETE, orUPDATEoperations on rows that belong to other managers, and can'tINSERTnew rows belonging to another manager.
You can drop a row security policy by using DROP POLICY command, as in his example:
WITH CHECK
SELECT
DELETE
UPDATE
INSERT
DROP POLICY account_managers ON accounts;
DROP POLICY account_managers ON accounts;
Although you may have dropped the policy, role manager is still not able to view any data that belong to any other manager. This is because the row-level security policy is still enabled on the accounts table. If row-level security is enabled by default, PostgreSQL uses a default-deny policy. You can disable row level security, as in example below:
ALTER TABLE accounts DISABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
ALTER TABLE accounts DISABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
Bypassing Row Level Security
PostgreSQL hasBYPASSRLSandNOBYPASSRLSpermissions, which can be assigned to a role; NOBYPASSRLS is assigned by default.
Withnewly provisioned serversin Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server bypassing row level security privilege (BYPASSRLS) is implemented as follows:
For Postgres 16 and above versioned servers we followstandard PostgreSQL 16 behavior.  Nonadministrative users created byazure_pg_adminadministrator role allows you to create roles with BYPASSRLS attribute\privilege as necessary.
For Postgres 15 and below versioned servers. , you can useazure_pg_adminuser to do administrative tasks that require BYPASSRLS privilege, but can't create nonadmin users with BypassRLS privilege, since administrator role has no superuser privileges, as common in cloud based PaaS PostgreSQL services.
Update passwords
For better security, it's a good practice to periodically rotate your admin password and database users passwords. It's recommended to use strong passwords using upper and lower cases, numbers, and special characters.
Use SCRAM
TheSalted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism (SCRAM)greatly improves the security of password-based user authentication by adding several key security features that prevent rainbow-table attacks, man-in-the-middle attacks, and stored password attacks, while also adding support for multiple hashing algorithms and passwords that contain non-ASCII characters.
In SCRAM authentication, the client participates in doing the encryption work in order to produce the proof of identity. SCRAM authentication therefore offloads some of the computation cost to its clients, which in most cases are application servers. Adopting SCRAM, in addition to stronger hash algorithm, therefore offers also protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks against PostgreSQL, by preventing a CPU overload of the server to compute password hashes.
If yourclient driver supports SCRAM, you cansetup access to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server using SCRAMasscram-sha-256vs. defaultmd5.
scram-sha-256
md5
Reset administrator password
Follow thehow to guideto reset the admin password.
Update database user password
You can use client tools to update database user passwords.For example,
ALTER ROLE demouser PASSWORD 'Password123!';
ALTER ROLE
ALTER ROLE demouser PASSWORD 'Password123!';
ALTER ROLE
Azure Policy Support
Azure Policyhelps to enforce organizational standards and to assess compliance at-scale. Through its compliance dashboard, it provides an aggregated view to evaluate the overall state of the environment, with the ability to drill down to the per-resource, per-policy granularity. It also helps to bring your resources to compliance through bulk remediation for existing resources and automatic remediation for new resources.
Built-in Policy Definitions
Built-in policies are developed and tested by Microsoft, ensuring they meet common standards and best practices, an be deployed quickly without the need for additional configuration, making them ideal for standard compliance requirements. Built-in policies often cover widely recognized standards and compliance frameworks.
The section below provides an index of Azure Policy built-in policy definitions for Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server. Use the link in the Source column to view the source on the Azure Policy GitHub repo.
Custom Policy Definitions
Custom policies can be precisely tailored to match the specific requirements of your organization, including unique security policies or compliance mandates. With custom policies you have complete control over the policy logic and parameters, allowing for sophisticated and fine-grained policy definitions.
Related content
Firewall rules in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Public access and private endpoints in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Virtual network integration in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources