Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
User roles and permissions
Article
2025-03-19
14 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Defender for Cloud usesAzure role-based access control (Azure Role-Based Access Control)to providebuilt-in roles. Assign these roles to users, groups, and services in Azure to give them access to resources according to the role's defined access.
Defender for Cloud assesses resource configurations and identifies security issues and vulnerabilities. In Defender for Cloud, view resource information when assigned one of these roles for the subscription or resource group: Owner, Contributor, or Reader.
In addition to the built-in roles, there are two roles specific to Defender for Cloud:
Security Reader: A user in this role has read-only access to Defender for Cloud. The user can view recommendations, alerts, security policies, and security states but can't make changes.
Security Admin: A user in this role has the same access as the Security Reader and can also update security policies and dismiss alerts and recommendations.
Assign the least permissive role needed for users to complete their tasks.
For example, assign the Reader role to users who only need to view security health information of a resource without taking any action. Users with a Reader role can't apply recommendations or edit policies.
Roles and allowed actions
The following table displays roles and allowed actions in Defender for Cloud.
Note
While the three roles mentioned are sufficient for enabling and disabling Defender for Cloud plans, the Owner role is required to enable all capabilities of a plan.
The specific role required to deploy monitoring components depends on the extension you deploy. Learn more aboutmonitoring components.
Roles used to automatically configure agents and extensions
To allow the Security Admin role to automatically configure agents and extensions used in Defender for Cloud plans, Defender for Cloud uses policy remediation similar toAzure Policy. To use remediation, Defender for Cloud needs to create service principals, also called managed identities, that assign roles at the subscription level. For example, the service principals for the Defender for Containers plan are:
Permissions on AWS
When you onboard an Amazon Web Services (AWS) connector, Defender for Cloud creates roles and assigns permissions on your AWS account. The following table shows the roles and permissions assigned by each plan on your AWS account.
Permissions on GCP
When you onboard a Google Cloud Platforms (GCP) connector, Defender for Cloud creates roles and assigns permissions on your GCP project. The following table shows the roles and permissions assigned by each plan on your GCP project.
Next steps
This article explained how Defender for Cloud uses Azure  Role-Based Access Control to assign permissions to users and identified the allowed actions for each role. Now that you're familiar with the role assignments needed to monitor the security state of your subscription, edit security policies, and apply recommendations, learn how to:
Set security policies in Defender for Cloud
Manage security recommendations in Defender for Cloud
Manage and respond to security alerts in Defender for Cloud
Monitor partner security solutions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources