Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is the migration service in Azure Database for PostgreSQL?
Article
2025-03-11
4 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server
The migration service in Azure Database for PostgreSQL simplifies the process of moving your PostgreSQL databases to Azure. The migration service offers migration options from various PostgreSQL-supported sources, including migrating from a cloud service, from an on-premises environment, or from a virtual machine in Azure. The migration service is designed to help you move your PostgreSQL databases to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server with ease and confidence.
Some of the advantages of using the migration service include:
Managed migration service
Support for schema and data migrations
No complex setup
Simple-to-use migration experiences by using the Azure portal or the Azure CLI
Unlimited database size
The following figure shows the PostgreSQL sources you can migrate by using the migration service in Azure Database for PostgreSQL. All supported environments can be seamlessly transitioned to Azure Database for PostgreSQL.

The next figure depicts the detailed steps that are involved in migrating from Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Single Server to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server. The figure illustrates the migration workflow and key stages of the migration for a successful transition to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.

Why use a flexible server?
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server is the next-generation managed PostgreSQL service in Azure. Azure Database for PostgreSQL powered by the PostgreSQL community edition is available in a flexible server deployment.
Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server provides maximum flexibility over your database and built-in cost optimizations. Advantages over peer products include:
Superior performance: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server runs on a Linux VM, the VM that's best suited to run the PostgreSQL engine.
Superior performance: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server runs on a Linux VM, the VM that's best suited to run the PostgreSQL engine.
Cost savings: You can stop and start Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server on an on-demand server to lower your total cost of operation (TCO). Your compute tier billing is stopped immediately, for significant cost savings during development and testing and for time-bound predictable production workloads.
Cost savings: You can stop and start Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server on an on-demand server to lower your total cost of operation (TCO). Your compute tier billing is stopped immediately, for significant cost savings during development and testing and for time-bound predictable production workloads.
Support for new versions of PostgreSQL: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server supports all major PostgreSQL versions beginning with version 11.
Support for new versions of PostgreSQL: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server supports all major PostgreSQL versions beginning with version 11.
Minimized latency: You can collocate your flexible server in the same availability zone as the application server for minimal latency.
Minimized latency: You can collocate your flexible server in the same availability zone as the application server for minimal latency.
Connection pooling: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server has a built-in connection pooling mechanism via the pgBouncer plugin to support thousands of active connections with low overhead.
Connection pooling: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server has a built-in connection pooling mechanism via the pgBouncer plugin to support thousands of active connections with low overhead.
Server parameters: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server offers a rich set of server parameters for configuration and tuning.
Server parameters: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server offers a rich set of server parameters for configuration and tuning.
Custom maintenance window: You can schedule the maintenance window of the flexible server for a specific day of the week and time.
Custom maintenance window: You can schedule the maintenance window of the flexible server for a specific day of the week and time.
High availability: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server supports high availability within the same availability zone and across availability zones by configuring a warm standby server in sync with the primary server.
High availability: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server supports high availability within the same availability zone and across availability zones by configuring a warm standby server in sync with the primary server.
Security: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server offers multiple layers of information protection and encryption to protect your data.
Security: Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server offers multiple layers of information protection and encryption to protect your data.
Vector Search and Azure AI Extension: With the integration of Vector Search and Azure AI extension for PostgreSQL, users can perform advanced search operations and use AI-driven insights directly in the database for enhanced query capabilities and application intelligence.
Vector Search and Azure AI Extension: With the integration of Vector Search and Azure AI extension for PostgreSQL, users can perform advanced search operations and use AI-driven insights directly in the database for enhanced query capabilities and application intelligence.
Migrate to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server
You can choose from the following options to migrate from a source PostgreSQL server to a flexible server:
Offline migration: In an offline migration, all applications that connect to your source instance are stopped. Then, databases are copied to a flexible server.
Online migration: In an online migration, applications that connect to your source server aren't stopped while databases are copied to a flexible server. The initial database copy is followed by replication to keep the flexible server in sync with the source instance. A cutover is performed and the flexible server completely syncs with the source instance, resulting in minimal downtime.
The following table describes offline and online options:
The following table lists the sources that the migration service supports:

Advantages of using the migration service vs. Azure Database Migration Service (Classic)
The following list describes the key benefits of using the migration service in Azure Database for PostgreSQL for your PostgreSQL migrations:
Fully managed service: The migration service in Azure Database for PostgreSQL is a fully managed service. We handle the complexities of the migration process.
Comprehensive migration: Supports both schema and data migrations. A complete and accurate transfer of your entire database environment to Azure.
Ease of setup: Designed to be user-friendly, the service eliminates complex setup procedures that might be a barrier to starting a migration project.
No data size constraints: With the ability to handle databases of any size, the service surpasses the 1-TB data migration limit of Azure Database Migration Service (Classic), so it's suitable for all types of database migrations.
Addressing Azure Database Migration Service (Classic) limitations: The migration service resolves many of the issues and limitations in Azure Database Migration Service (Classic), for a more reliable migration process.
Interface options: You can choose between an Azure portal-based interface for an intuitive experience or a command-line interface (the Azure CLI) for automation and scripting.
Get started
Get started with the migration service by using one of the following methods:
Migrate from Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Single Server
Migrate from an on-premises or infrastructure as a service (IaaS) environment
Migrate from Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL
Get more information
The migration service for Azure Database for PostgreSQL is a hosted solution. It uses a binary calledpgcopydbto quickly and efficiently copy databases from your source PostgreSQL instance to Azure.
Related content
Premigration validations
Migration from Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Single Server
Migrate from on-premises and Azure VMs
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources