Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Minimum versions for sensitivity labels in Office apps
Article
2025-04-17
13 contributors
In this article
Microsoft 365 licensing guidance for security & compliance.
The capabilities tables on this page supplementManage sensitivity labels in Office appsby listing the minimum Office version that introduced specific capabilities for sensitivity labels built in to Office apps, or if the label capability is in public preview or not available.
New versions of Office apps are made available at different times for different update channels. For Windows, you'll get the new capabilities earlier when you're on the Current Channel or Monthly Enterprise Channel, rather than Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel. The minimum version numbers can also be different from one update channel to the next. For more information, seeOverview of update channels for Microsoft 365 AppsandUpdate history for Microsoft 365 Apps.
New capabilities that are in private preview aren't included in the tables but you might be able to join these previews by nominating your organization for theMicrosoft Information Protection private preview program.
Tip
When you compare the minimum versions in the tables with the versions you have, remember the common practice of release versions to omit leading zeros.
For example, you have version 4.2128.0 and read that 4.7.1+ is the minimum version. For easier comparison, read 4.7.1 (no leading zeros) as 4.0007.1 (and not 4.**
7000**.1). Your version of 4.2128.0 is higher than 4.0007.1; so, your version is supported.
Sensitivity label capabilities in Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
The numbers listed are the minimum Office application versions required for each capability.
Note
For Windows and the Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel, the minimum supported version numbers might not yet be released.Learn more.
Sensitivity label capabilities in Outlook
The numbers listed are the minimum Office application versions required for each capability.
Note
For Windows and the Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel, the minimum supported version numbers might not yet be released.Learn more
Footnotes:
*For information about the new Outlook for Windows, seeGetting started with the new Outlook for Windows
**Requires thenew Outlook for Mac
Future releases
For information about new labeling capabilities that are planned for future releases, use theMicrosoft 365 roadmap.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources