Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is an Azure landing zone?
Article
2025-03-31
31 contributors
In this article
An Azure landing zone is an environment that follows key design principles across eight design areas. These design principles accommodate all application portfolios and enable application migration, modernization, and innovation at scale. An Azure landing zone uses subscriptions to isolate and scale application resources and platform resources. Subscriptions for application resources are called application landing zones, and subscriptions for platform resources are called platform landing zones.
Azure landing zone architecture
An Azure landing zone architecture is scalable and modular to meet various deployment needs. The repeatable infrastructure allows you to apply configurations and controls to every subscription consistently. Modules make it easy to deploy and modify specific Azure landing zone architecture components as your requirements evolve.
The Azure landing zone conceptual architecture (see figure 1) represents an opinionated target architecture for your Azure landing zone. You should use this conceptual architecture as a starting point andtailor the architecture to meet your needs.
Figure 1: Azure landing zone conceptual architecture. Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Design areas:The conceptual architecture illustrates the relationships between its eight design areas. These design areas are Azure billing and Microsoft Entra tenant, identity and access management, management group and subscription organization, network topology and connectivity, security, management, governance, and platform automation and DevOps. For more information on the design areas, seethe Azure Landing Zone environment design areas.
Resource organization:The conceptual architecture shows a sample management group hierarchy. It organizes subscriptions (yellow boxes) by management group. The subscriptions under the "Platform" management group represent the platform landing zones. The subscriptions under the "Landing zone" management group represent the application landing zones. The conceptual architecture shows five subscriptions in detail. You can see the resources in each subscription and the policies applied.
Platform landing zones vs. application landing zones
An Azure landing zone consists of platform landing zones and application landing zones. It's worth explaining the function of both in more detail.
Platform landing zone:A platform landing zone is a subscription that provides shared services (identity, connectivity, management) to applications in application landing zones. Consolidating these shared services often improves operational efficiency. One or more central teams manage the platform landing zones. In the conceptual architecture (see figure 1), the "Identity subscription," "Management subscription," and "Connectivity subscription" represent three different platform landing zones. The conceptual architecture shows these three platform landing zones in detail. It depicts representative resources and policies applied to each platform landing zone.
Application landing zone:An application landing zone is a subscription for hosting an application. You pre-provision application landing zones through code and use management groups to assign policy controls to them. In the conceptual architecture (see figure 1), the "Landing zone A1 subscription" and "Landing zone A2 subscription" represent two different application landing zones. The conceptual architecture shows only the "Landing zone A2 subscription" in detail. It depicts representative resources and policies applied to the application landing zone.
Figure 2: Azure landing zone conceptual architecture with Application & Platform Landing Zones overlaid. Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
There are three main approaches to managing application landing zones. You should use one of the following management approaches depending on your needs:
Central team approach
Application team approach
Shared team approach
Azure Verified Modules for Platform Landing Zones
For infrastructure as code (IaC) deployments, you can use Azure Verified Modules for Platform Landing Zones. Available for both Bicep and Terraform, these modules provide a set of reusable, customizable, and extensible modules that help you deploy a platform landing zone. The modules are designed to help you accelerate the delivery of the recommended resource hierarchy and governance model. You can integrate shared services, network connectivity, and application workloads into your deployment or manage them independently.
If you want to use Bicep or Terraform, seeBicep and Terraform deployment options.
Azure Platform Landing Zones Portal Accelerator
This accelerator is a ready-made deployment experience. The Azure landing zone portal accelerator deploys the conceptual architecture (see figure 1) and applies predetermined configurations to key components such as management groups and policies. It suits organizations whose conceptual architecture aligns with the planned operating model and resource structure.
If you plan to manage your environment with the Azure portal, use the Azure Platform Landing Zones Portal Accelerator. Deploying the Azure Landing Zone Portal Accelerator requires permissions to create resources at the tenant (/) scope. To grant these permissions, follow the guidance inTenant deployments with ARM templates: Required access.
/

Application landing zone accelerators
Application landing zone accelerators help you deploy application landing zones. Use the list of available application landing zone accelerators in theAzure Architecture Centerand deploy the accelerator that matches your scenario.
Video explaining application landing zones and their implementation principles
Next steps
An Azure landing zone is an environment that adheres to crucial design principles across eight design areas. You should familiarize yourself with these design principles to tailor them to your needs.
Design principles
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources