Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
App Service Environment v3 and App Service public multitenant comparison
Article
2025-04-02
2 contributors
In this article
An App Service Environment is an Azure App Service feature that provides a fully isolated and dedicated environment for running App Service apps securely at high scale. Compared to the public multitenant offering, where the supporting infrastructure is shared with other customers, an App Service Environment provides enhanced security, isolation, and network access control.
This article compares the differentiating features of App Service Environment v3 and the public multitenant offering of App Service.
Hosting
Scaling
Both App Service Environment v3 and the public multitenant offering run onvirtual machine scale sets. Both offerings benefit from the capabilities that scale sets provide.
However, App Service Environment v3 is a dedicated environment. Even though it can scale out to more instances than the public multitenant offering, scaling out to multiple instances can be slower than the public multitenant offering.
Certificates and domains
Networks
Pricing
App Service Environment v3 tends to be more expensive than the public multitenant offering, due to the dedicated nature of the infrastructure. For both offerings, you pay for only the resources that you use. Reserved instances and savings plans are available for both offerings to save money on long-term commitments.
Frequently asked questions
How do I know which offering is right for me?
Can I use App Service Environment v3 and the public multitenant offering together?
Can I migrate from the public multitenant offering to App Service Environment v3?
Can I use App Service Environment v3 for my development and testing environments?
How do I get started with App Service Environment v3?
How do I get started with the App Service public multitenant offering?
How do I know which offering is right for me?
Deciding between App Service Environment v3 and the public multitenant offering depends on your specific requirements. The following common scenarios can help you decide:
If you need a fully isolated and dedicated environment for running your apps, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.If you don't need a fully isolated environment and you're OK with sharing the supporting infrastructure with other customers, the public multitenant offering is the right choice for you.
If you need a fully isolated and dedicated environment for running your apps, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.
If you don't need a fully isolated environment and you're OK with sharing the supporting infrastructure with other customers, the public multitenant offering is the right choice for you.
If you need nearly instantaneous scaling times, the public multitenant offering is the right choice for you.If you need to scale out to more than 30 instances, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.
If you need nearly instantaneous scaling times, the public multitenant offering is the right choice for you.
If you need to scale out to more than 30 instances, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.
If you need to use client certificates issued by a private CA, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.If you need to use client certificates issued by a private CA and you're deploying by using either Windows containers or Linux containers, the public multitenant offering is also a possibility.
If you need to use client certificates issued by a private CA, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.
If you need to use client certificates issued by a private CA and you're deploying by using either Windows containers or Linux containers, the public multitenant offering is also a possibility.
If you want to simplify your networking configuration and have all your apps in the same subnet, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.If you want to use virtual network integration, private endpoints, or IP access restrictions, then both offerings are right for you. But you need to enable these features on a per-app basis for the public multitenant offering.
If you want to simplify your networking configuration and have all your apps in the same subnet, App Service Environment v3 is the right choice for you.
If you want to use virtual network integration, private endpoints, or IP access restrictions, then both offerings are right for you. But you need to enable these features on a per-app basis for the public multitenant offering.
Can I use App Service Environment v3 and the public multitenant offering together?
Yes, you can use App Service Environment v3 and the public multitenant offering together. You can use App Service Environment v3 for your most critical apps that require a fully isolated and dedicated environment. You can use the public multitenant offering for your apps that don't require a fully isolated environment.
Can I migrate from the public multitenant offering to App Service Environment v3?
Yes, you can migrate from the public multitenant offering to App Service Environment v3 and vice versa. You can use thebackup and restore featureto migrate your apps.
Can I use App Service Environment v3 for my development and testing environments?
Yes, you can use App Service Environment v3 for your development and testing environments. However, App Service Environment v3 is more expensive than the public multitenant offering. You might want to use the public multitenant offering for your development and testing environments to save money.
How do I get started with App Service Environment v3?
To get started with App Service Environment v3, seeAzure App Service landing zone accelerator.
How do I get started with the App Service public multitenant offering?
To get started with the App Service public multitenant offering, seeGetting started with Azure App Service.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources