Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure SQL Edge?
Article
2024-09-21
12 contributors
In this article
Important
Azure SQL Edge will be retired on September 30, 2025. For more information and migration options, see theRetirement notice.
Note
Azure SQL Edge no longer supports the ARM64 platform.
Azure SQL Edge is an optimized relational database engine geared for IoT and IoT Edge deployments. It provides capabilities to create a high-performance data storage and processing layer for IoT applications and solutions. Azure SQL Edge provides capabilities to stream, process, and analyze relational and nonrelational data such as JSON, graph and time-series data, which makes it the right choice for various modern IoT applications.
Azure SQL Edge is built on the latest versions of theSQL Server Database Engine, which provides industry-leading performance, security and query processing capabilities. Since Azure SQL Edge is built on the same engine asSQL ServerandAzure SQL, it provides the same Transact-SQL (T-SQL) programming surface area that makes development of applications or solutions easier and faster, and makes application portability between IoT Edge devices, data centers and the cloud straight forward.
What is Azure SQL Edge video on Channel 9:
Deployment models
Azure SQL Edge supports two deployment modes.
Connected deployment through Azure IoT Edge: Azure SQL Edge is available as a module forAzure IoT Edge. For more information, seeDeploy Azure SQL Edge.

Disconnected deployment: Azure SQL Edge container images can be pulled from Docker hub and deployed either as a standalone container or on a Kubernetes cluster. For more information, seeDeploy Azure SQL Edge with DockerandDeploy an Azure SQL Edge container in Kubernetes.
Editions of SQL Edge
SQL Edge is available with two different editions or software plans. These editions have identical feature sets and only differ in terms of their usage rights and the amount of CPU/memory they support.
Price and availability
Azure SQL Edge is generally available. For more information on the pricing and availability in specific regions, seeAzure SQL Edge.
Important
To understand the feature differences between Azure SQL Edge and SQL Server, as well as the differences among different Azure SQL Edge options, seeSupported features of Azure SQL Edge.
Streaming capabilities
Azure SQL Edge provides built in streaming capabilities for real-time analytics and complex event-processing. The streaming capability is built using the same constructs asAzure Stream Analyticsand  similar capabilities asAzure Stream Analytics on IoT Edge.
The streaming engine for Azure SQL Edge is designed for low-latency, resiliency, efficient use of bandwidth and compliance.
For more information on data streaming in SQL Edge, seeData Streaming.
Machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities
Azure SQL Edge provides built-in machine learning and analytics capabilities by integrating the open format ONNX (Open Neural Network Exchange) runtime, which allows exchange of deep learning and neural network models between different frameworks. For more information on ONNX, seehere. ONNX runtime provides the flexibility to develop models in a language or tools of your choice, which can then be converted to the ONNX format for execution within SQL Edge. For more information, seeMachine Learning and Artificial Intelligence with ONNX in SQL Edge.
Work with Azure SQL Edge
Azure SQL Edge makes developing and maintaining applications easier and more productive. Users can use all the familiar tools and skills to build great apps and solutions for their IoT Edge needs. You can develop in SQL Edge using the following tools:
The Azure portal- A web-based application for managing all Azure services.
SQL Server Management Studio- A free, downloadable client application for managing any SQL infrastructure, from SQL Server to SQL Database.
SQL Server Data Tools in Visual Studio- A free, downloadable client application for developing SQL Server relational databases, SQL databases, Integration Services packages, Analysis Services data models, and Reporting Services reports.
Azure Data Studio- A free, downloadable, cross platform database tool for data professional using the Microsoft family of on-premises and cloud data platforms on Windows, macOS, and Linux.
Visual Studio Code- A free, downloadable, open-source code editor for Windows, macOS, and Linux. It supports extensions, including themssql extensionfor querying Microsoft SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, and Azure Synapse Analytics.
Related content
Deploy SQL Edge through Azure portal
Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence with SQL Edge
Building an end-to-end IoT solution with SQL Edge
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources