Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft identity platform authentication libraries
Article
2023-10-23
36 contributors
In this article
The following tables show Microsoft Authentication Library support for several application types. They include links to library source code, where to get the package for your app's project, and whether the library supports user sign-in (authentication), access to protected web APIs (authorization), or both.
The Microsoft identity platform has been certified by the OpenID Foundation as acertified OpenID provider. If you prefer to use a library other than the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) or another Microsoft-supported library, choose one with acertified OpenID Connect implementation.
If you choose to hand-code your own protocol-level implementation ofOAuth 2.0 or OpenID Connect 1.0, pay close attention to the security considerations in each standard's specification and follow secure software design and development practices like those in theMicrosoft SDL.
Single-page application (SPA)
A single-page application runs entirely in the browser and fetches page data (HTML, CSS, and JavaScript) dynamically or at application load time. It can call web APIs to interact with back-end data sources.
Because a SPA's code runs entirely in the browser, it's considered apublic clientthat's unable to store secrets securely.
1Universal License Terms for Online Servicesapply to libraries inPublic preview.
2Auth code flowwith PKCE only (Recommended).
3Implicit grant flowonly (Not recommended).
Web application
A web application runs code on a server that generates and sends HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to a user's web browser to be rendered. The user's identity is maintained as a session between the user's browser (the front end) and the web server (the back end).
Because a web application's code runs on the web server, it's considered aconfidential clientthat can store secrets securely.
(1)Universal License Terms for Online Servicesapply to libraries inPublic preview.
(2)TheMicrosoft.IdentityModellibrary onlyvalidatestokens - it can't request ID or access tokens.
Desktop application
A desktop application is typically binary (compiled) code that displays a user interface and is intended to run on a user's desktop.
Because a desktop application runs on the user's desktop, it's considered apublic clientthat's unable to store secrets securely.
1Universal License Terms for Online Servicesapply to libraries inPublic preview.
Mobile application
A mobile application is typically binary (compiled) code that displays a user interface and is intended to run on a user's mobile device.
Because a mobile application runs on the user's mobile device, it's considered apublic clientthat's unable to store secrets securely.
1Universal License Terms for Online Servicesapply to libraries inPublic preview.
Service / daemon
Services and daemons are commonly used for server-to-server and other unattended (sometimes calledheadless) communication. Because there's no user at the keyboard to enter credentials or consent to resource access, these applications authenticate as themselves, not a user, when requesting authorized access to a web API's resources.
A service or daemon that runs on a server is considered aconfidential clientthat can store its secrets securely.
1Universal License Terms for Online Servicesapply to libraries inPublic preview.
Next steps
For more information about the Microsoft Authentication Library, see theOverview of the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL).
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources