Azure enterprise cloud file share
This reference architecture illustrates an enterprise-level cloud file sharing solution that uses Azure services includingAzure Files,Azure File Sync,Azure Private DNS, andAzure Private Endpoint. The solution generates cost savings by outsourcing the management of file servers and infrastructure while retaining control of the data.
Architecture
The following diagram shows how clients can access Azure file shares:
Locally through a cloud tiering file server.
Remotely overExpressRouteprivate peering or VPN tunnels in a private network environment.

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Workflow
The enterprise-level cloud file sharing solution uses the following methods to provide the same user experience as traditional file sharing but with Azure file shares:
Makes use of Azure File Sync to synchronize file and folder Access Control Lists (ACL) between on-premises file servers and Azure file shares.
Uses the cloud tiering feature from the Azure File Sync agent to cache frequently accessed files locally.
Enforces AD DS authentication over Azure file shares.
Accesses file share and file sync services via private IP through Private Link and Private Endpoint over an ExpressRoute private peering or VPN tunnel.
By implementing Azure Private Endpoint on Azure Files and Azure File Sync, public endpoint access is disabled so that access to Azure Files and Azure File Sync is restricted from the Azure virtual network.
The ExpressRoute private peering VPN site-to-site tunnel extends the on-premises network to the Azure virtual network. Azure File Sync and Server Message Block (SMB) traffic from on-premises to Azure Files and Azure File Sync private endpoints is restricted to private connection only. During transition, Azure Files will only allow the connection if it's made with SMB 3.0+. Connections made from the Azure File Sync agent to an Azure File share or Storage Sync Service are always encrypted. At rest, Azure Storage automatically encrypts your data when it's persisted to the cloud, as does Azure Files.
A Domain Name System (DNS) resolver is a critical component of the solution. Each Azure service, in this case Azure Files and Azure File Sync, have a fully qualified domain name (FQDN). The FQDNs of those services are resolved to their public IP addresses in these cases:
When a client accesses an Azure Files share.
When an Azure File Sync agent, deployed on an on-premises file server, accesses the Azure File Sync service.
After enabling a private endpoint, private IP addresses are allocated in the Azure virtual network. These addresses allow access to those services over a private connection, and the same FQDNs must now resolve to private IP addresses. To achieve that, Azure Files and Azure File Sync create a canonical name DNS record (CNAME) to redirect the resolution to a private domain name:
The Azure File Sync's public domain name*.afs.azure.netgets a CNAME redirect to the private domain name*.<region>.privatelink.afs.azure.net.
*.afs.azure.net
*.<region>.privatelink.afs.azure.net
The Azure Files public domain name<name>.file.core.windows.netgets a CNAME redirect to the private domain name<name>.privatelink.file.core.windows.net.
<name>.file.core.windows.net
<name>.privatelink.file.core.windows.net
The solution shown in this architecture correctly configures on-premises DNS settings so that they resolve private domain names to private IP addresses, by using the following methods:
Private DNS zones (components11and12) are created from Azure to provide private name resolution for Azure File Sync and Azure Files.
Private DNS zones are linked to the Azure virtual network so that a DNS server deployed in the virtual network or Azure private DNS resolver(component8)  can resolve private domain names.
DNS A records are created for Azure Files and Azure File Sync in private DNS zones. For the endpoint configuration steps, seeConfiguring Azure Files network endpointsandConfiguring Azure File Sync network endpoints.
The on-premises DNS server (component3) sets up conditional forwarding to forward the DNS query ofdomain afs.azure.netandfile.core.windows.netto the DNS server in the Azure virtual network (component8).
domain afs.azure.net
file.core.windows.net
After receiving the forwarded DNS query from the on-premises DNS server, the DNS server (component8) in the Azure virtual network uses the Azure DNS recursive resolver to resolve private domain names and return private IP addresses to the client.
Components
The solution depicted in the architecture diagram uses the following components:
Client(component1or2) - Typically, the client is a Windows, Linux, or Mac OSX desktop that cantalkto a file server or Azure Files through the SMB protocol.
Client(component1or2) - Typically, the client is a Windows, Linux, or Mac OSX desktop that cantalkto a file server or Azure Files through the SMB protocol.
DC and DNS servers(component3) - A domain controller (DC) is a server that responds to authentication requests and verifies users on computer networks. A DNS server provides computer name-to-IP address-mapping name resolution services to computers and users. DC and DNS servers can be combined into a single server or can be separated into different servers.
DC and DNS servers(component3) - A domain controller (DC) is a server that responds to authentication requests and verifies users on computer networks. A DNS server provides computer name-to-IP address-mapping name resolution services to computers and users. DC and DNS servers can be combined into a single server or can be separated into different servers.
File server(component4) - A server that hosts file shares and provides file share services.
File server(component4) - A server that hosts file shares and provides file share services.
CE/VPN Device(component5) - A customer edge router (CE) or VPN device is used to establish ExpressRoute or VPN connection to the Azure virtual network.
CE/VPN Device(component5) - A customer edge router (CE) or VPN device is used to establish ExpressRoute or VPN connection to the Azure virtual network.
Azure ExpressRoute or Azure VPN Gateway(component6) –Azure ExpressRouteis a service that lets you extend your on-premises network into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection facilitated by a connectivity provider.Azure VPN Gatewayis a specific type of virtual network gateway that is used to send encrypted traffic between an Azure virtual network and an on-premises location over the public internet. ExpressRoute or VPN Gateway establishes ExpressRoute or VPN connection to your on-premises network.
Azure ExpressRoute or Azure VPN Gateway(component6) –Azure ExpressRouteis a service that lets you extend your on-premises network into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection facilitated by a connectivity provider.Azure VPN Gatewayis a specific type of virtual network gateway that is used to send encrypted traffic between an Azure virtual network and an on-premises location over the public internet. ExpressRoute or VPN Gateway establishes ExpressRoute or VPN connection to your on-premises network.
Azure private endpoint(component7) - A network interface that connects you privately and securely to a service powered byAzure Private Link. In this solution, anAzure File Syncprivate endpoint connects to Azure File Sync (9), and anAzure Filesprivate endpoint connects to Azure Files (10).
Azure private endpoint(component7) - A network interface that connects you privately and securely to a service powered byAzure Private Link. In this solution, anAzure File Syncprivate endpoint connects to Azure File Sync (9), and anAzure Filesprivate endpoint connects to Azure Files (10).
DNS server/Azure private DNS resolver(component8) in theAzure Virtual Networkinstance uses theAzure DNSrecursive resolver to resolve the private domain name and return a private IP address to the client, after receiving a forwarded DNS query from an on-premises DNS server.
DNS server/Azure private DNS resolver(component8) in theAzure Virtual Networkinstance uses theAzure DNSrecursive resolver to resolve the private domain name and return a private IP address to the client, after receiving a forwarded DNS query from an on-premises DNS server.
Azure File Sync and cloud tiering(component9) – Azure File Sync allows you to centralize your organization's file shares in Azure, while keeping the flexibility, performance, and compatibility of an on-premises file server. Cloud tiering is an optional feature of Azure File Sync in which frequently accessed files are cached locally on the server while all other files are tiered to Azure Files based on policy settings.
Azure File Sync and cloud tiering(component9) – Azure File Sync allows you to centralize your organization's file shares in Azure, while keeping the flexibility, performance, and compatibility of an on-premises file server. Cloud tiering is an optional feature of Azure File Sync in which frequently accessed files are cached locally on the server while all other files are tiered to Azure Files based on policy settings.
Azure Files(component10) - A fully managed service that offers file shares in the cloud that are accessible via the industry standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol.Azure Filesimplements the SMB v3 protocol and supports authentication through on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) andMicrosoft Entra Domain Services. File shares from Azure Files can be mounted concurrently by cloud or on-premises deployments of Windows, Linux, and macOS. Additionally, SMB Azure file shares can be cached nearer to where the data is being used, on Windows Servers with Azure File Sync for fast access.
Azure Files(component10) - A fully managed service that offers file shares in the cloud that are accessible via the industry standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol.Azure Filesimplements the SMB v3 protocol and supports authentication through on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) andMicrosoft Entra Domain Services. File shares from Azure Files can be mounted concurrently by cloud or on-premises deployments of Windows, Linux, and macOS. Additionally, SMB Azure file shares can be cached nearer to where the data is being used, on Windows Servers with Azure File Sync for fast access.
Azure Private DNS(components11and12) - A DNS service offered by Azure, Private DNS manages and resolves domain names in a virtual network, without the need to add a custom DNS solution.
Azure Private DNS(components11and12) - A DNS service offered by Azure, Private DNS manages and resolves domain names in a virtual network, without the need to add a custom DNS solution.
Azure Backup(component13) -Azure Backupis an Azure file share backup service that uses file share snapshots to provide a cloud-based backup solution. For considerations, seeData loss and backup.
Azure Backup(component13) -Azure Backupis an Azure file share backup service that uses file share snapshots to provide a cloud-based backup solution. For considerations, seeData loss and backup.
Scenario details
This solution allows you to access Azure file shares in a hybrid work environment over a virtual private network between on-premises and Azure virtual networks without traversing the internet. It also allows you to control and limit file access through identity-based authentication.
Potential use cases
The cloud file sharing solution supports the following potential use cases:
File server or file share lift and shift. By lifting and shifting, you eliminate the need to restructure or reformat data. You also keep legacy applications on-premises while benefiting from cloud storage.
Accelerate cloud innovation with increased operational efficiency. Reduces the cost to maintain hardware and physical space, protects against data corruption and data loss.
Private access to Azure file shares. Protects against data exfiltration.
Traffic flows
After enabling Azure File Sync and Azure Files, Azure file shares can be accessed in two modes,local cache modeorremote mode. In both modes, the client uses existing AD DS credentials to authenticate itself.
Local cache mode - The client accesses files and file shares through a local file server with cloud tiering enabled. When a user opens a file from the local file server, file data is either served from the file server local cache, or the Azure File Sync agent seamlessly recalls the file data from Azure Files. In the architecture diagram for this solution, it happens between component1and4.
Local cache mode - The client accesses files and file shares through a local file server with cloud tiering enabled. When a user opens a file from the local file server, file data is either served from the file server local cache, or the Azure File Sync agent seamlessly recalls the file data from Azure Files. In the architecture diagram for this solution, it happens between component1and4.
Remote mode - The client accesses files and file shares directly from a remote Azure file share. In the architecture diagram for this solution, the traffic flow travels through components2,5,6,7and10.
Remote mode - The client accesses files and file shares directly from a remote Azure file share. In the architecture diagram for this solution, the traffic flow travels through components2,5,6,7and10.
Azure File Sync traffic travels between components4,5,6, and7, using anExpressRoute circuitfor a reliable connection.
Private domain name resolution queries go through components3,5,6,8,11and12using the following sequence:
The client sends a query to an on-premises DNS server to resolve an Azure Files or Azure File Sync DNS name.
The on-premises DNS server has a conditional forwarder that points Azure File and Azure File Sync DNS name resolution to a DNS server in the Azure virtual network.
The query is redirected to a DNS Server or Azure private DNS resolver in the Azure virtual network.
Depending on the virtual network's DNS configuration:If a custom DNS server is configured, the DNS Server in the Azure virtual network sends a name query to the Azure provided DNS (168.63.129.16) recursive resolver.If the Azure private DNS resolver is configured, and the query matches the private DNS zones that are linked to the virtual network, those zones are consulted.
If a custom DNS server is configured, the DNS Server in the Azure virtual network sends a name query to the Azure provided DNS (168.63.129.16) recursive resolver.
If the Azure private DNS resolver is configured, and the query matches the private DNS zones that are linked to the virtual network, those zones are consulted.
The DNS server/Azure private DNS resolver returns a private IP, after resolving the private domain name to the respective private DNS zone. It uses the Azure virtual network's links to the Azure Files DNS zone and the Azure File Sync private DNS zone.
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeMicrosoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.
Consider the following points when implementing this solution.
Planning
For Azure File Sync planning, refer toPlanning for an Azure File Sync deployment.
For Azure Files planning, refer toPlanning for an Azure Files deployment.
Networking
For Azure File Sync network considerations, refer toAzure File Sync networking considerations.
For Azure Files networking considerations, refer toAzure Files networking considerations.
DNS
When managing name resolution for private endpoints, the private domain names of Azure Files and Azure File Sync are resolved in the following way:
From the Azure side:
If Azure-provided name resolution is used, the Azure virtual network must link to provisioned private DNS zones.
If "bring your own DNS server" is used, the virtual network where your own DNS server is deployed must link to provisioned private DNS zones.
From the on-premises side, the private domain name is mapped to a private IP address in one of the following ways:
Through DNS forwarding to a DNS server deployed in the Azure virtual network or Azure private DNS resolver, as the diagram shows.
Through the on-premises DNS server that sets up zones for the private domain<region>.privatelink.afs.azure.netandprivatelink.file.core.windows.net. The server registers the IP addresses of Azure Files and Azure File Sync private endpoints as DNS A records into their respective DNS zones. The on-premises client resolves the private domain name directly from the local on-premises DNS server.
<region>.privatelink.afs.azure.net
privatelink.file.core.windows.net
For more information, seePrivate resolver architecture.
Distributed File System (DFS)
When it comes to an on-premises file sharing solution, many administrators choose to use a DFS rather than a traditional standalone file server. DFS allows administrators to consolidate file shares that might exist on multiple servers so that they appear as though they all live in the same location, allowing users to access them from a single point on the network. While moving to a cloud file share solution, traditional DFS-R deployment can be replaced by Azure File Sync deployment. For more information, seeMigrate a DFS Replication (DFS-R) deployment to Azure File Sync.
Data loss and backup
Data loss is a serious problem for businesses of all sizes. Azure file share backup uses file share snapshots to provide a cloud-based backup solution that protects your data in the cloud and eliminates additional maintenance overhead involved in on-premises backup solutions. The key benefits of Azure file share backup include:
Zero infrastructure
Customized retention
Built-in management capabilities
Instant restores
Alerting and reporting
Protection against accidental deletion of file shares
For more information, seeAbout Azure file share backup
Support for hybrid identities on Azure Files
Although this article describes Active Directory for authenticating on Azure Files, it's possible to use Microsoft Entra ID for authenticating hybrid user identities. Azure Files supports identity-based authentication over Server Message Block (SMB), by using the Kerberos authentication protocol through the following methods:
On-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS)
Microsoft Entra Domain Services
Microsoft Entra Kerberos (for hybrid user identities only)
AD authentication for Linux clients
For more information, seeEnable Microsoft Entra Kerberos authentication for hybrid identities on Azure Files.
Security
Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the abuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Security.
Azure DDoS Protection, combined with application-design best practices, provides enhanced DDoS mitigation features to provide more defense against DDoS attacks. You should enableAzure DDOS Protectionon any perimeter virtual network.
Security auditing is a necessary requirement for helping to maintain the security of an enterprise. Industry standards require enterprises to follow a strict set of rules related to data security and privacy.
File access auditing can be enabled locally and remotely:
Locally, by using Dynamic Access Control. For more information, seePlan for File Access Auditing.
Remotely, by using Azure Storage logs in Azure Monitor on Azure Files. Azure Storage logs contains StorageRead, StorageWrite, StorageDelete, and Transaction logs. Azure file access can be logged to a storage account, log analytics workspace, or streamed to an event hub separately. For more information, seeMonitor Azure Files.
Scalability and performance
Scalability and performance targets for Azure Files and Azure File Sync depend on various factors like SMB client behavior and network bandwidth. For example, the performance of I/O for a file might be impacted by your SMB client's behavior and by your available network bandwidth. Testing your usage pattern helps determine if they meet your needs. For more information, seeScalability and performance targets for Azure Files and Azure File Sync.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Yingting Huang| Senior Cloud Solution Architect
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
Planning for an Azure Files deployment
How to deploy Azure Files
Azure Files networking considerations
Configuring Azure Files network endpoints
Monitor Azure Files
Plan for File Access Auditing
Back up Azure file shares
Overview - on-premises Active Directory Domain Services authentication over SMB for Azure file shares
Deploy Azure File Sync
Configuring Azure File Sync network endpoints
Cloud Tiering Overview
Create a Site-to-Site connection in the Azure portal
ExpressRoute circuits and peering
Create and modify peering for an ExpressRoute circuit
About Azure file share backup
What is Azure DNS Private Resolver
Enable Microsoft Entra Kerberos authentication for hybrid identities on Azure Files
Related resources
Azure enterprise cloud file share
Azure files accessed on-premises and secured by AD DS
Hybrid file services