Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Integrate with service hooks
Article
2024-08-08
18 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
Service Hooks let you run tasks on other services when events happen in your project in Azure DevOps.
For example, you can create a card in Trello when a work item gets created or send a push notification to your team's mobile devices when a build fails. You can also use service hooks in custom apps and services as a more efficient way to drive activities when events happen in your projects.
How do service hooks work?
Service hookpublishersdefine a set ofeventsthat you can subscribe to.Subscriptionslisten for theseeventsand defineactionsto take based on the event.
Subscriptions also targetconsumers, which are external services that can run their own actions
when events occur.

Note
Service hooks require allowing IP ranges for inbound connection to service endpoints. The service endpoint is the set of properties provided to a service hook. For more information, seeAllowed address lists and network connections, IP addresses and range restrictions.
Available services
The following services are available as the target of service hooks. For more information about other apps and services that integrate with Azure DevOps, go to theVisual Studio Marketplace.
Create a subscription
When you integrate one of these services with Azure DevOps, you must create a new subscription. In many cases, you need to do some configuration in the other service, too. For specific details, check out the information for the service that you're interested in.
Open the admin page for a project in web access.
Open the admin page for a project in web access.
Run the wizard to create the subscription.
Run the wizard to create the subscription.

Select the service that you want to integrate with.
Select the service that you want to integrate with.

Select the event to trigger on and any applicable filters.
Select the event to trigger on and any applicable filters.

Select an action to run on the target service.NoteThe list of available actions may be limited based on the event type that you selected.
Select an action to run on the target service.
Note
The list of available actions may be limited based on the event type that you selected.

To confirm the settings are correct, test the subscription and then finish the wizard.
To confirm the settings are correct, test the subscription and then finish the wizard.


FAQs

Q: What permissions do I need to set up a subscription?
A:Edit subscriptionsandView subscriptions. By default, only project administrators
have these permissions. To grant them to other users directly, you can use thecommand line toolor theSecurityREST API.
To grantViewpermission for a group, seeSetViewpermission for a group in Service Hookspage.
Q: What are the security implications of grantingEdit subscriptionsandView subscriptionspermissions?
A: The user with these permissions can see all subscriptions created in the
project and the notification history for those subscriptions. That user can then
create any type of service hook subscription in that project. If the user sets up a subscription for a resource that they don't otherwise have permission to access, the subscription won't be triggered.
For example:Subscriptions you create for work item update events in area path XYZ won't send notifications if you lack access to those work items. However, you can see the notification history of other users who do have access to those work items.
Q: Can I create service hook subscriptions for a project programmatically?
A: Yes. For more information, seeCreate a service hooks subscription.
Q: Can I remove an app's access to my organization after I've authorized it?
A: Yes. You can revoke authorizations from your profile.
Go to your profile page fromhttps://visualstudio.microsoft.com/.Make sure you start from the Visual Studio site (https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)
instead of your organization (https://dev.azure.com/{orgName}) because your profile accessed from your organization takes you to the wrong implementation
of the authorizations management feature.
Go to your profile page fromhttps://visualstudio.microsoft.com/.
Make sure you start from the Visual Studio site (https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)
instead of your organization (https://dev.azure.com/{orgName}) because your profile accessed from your organization takes you to the wrong implementation
of the authorizations management feature.
https://dev.azure.com/{orgName}
Manage your authorizations.
Manage your authorizations.

Revoke any authorizations you no longer want to allow.
Revoke any authorizations you no longer want to allow.

Q: Why can't we set up service hooks for HipChat anymore?
A: Atlassian officially dropped support for HipChat. For more information, seethe announcement.
Related articles
Troubleshoot service hooks and FAQs
Visual Studio Marketplace
Billing information
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources