Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Estimate the cost of archiving data
Article
2024-09-11
8 contributors
In this article
The archive tier is an offline tier for storing data that is rarely accessed. The archive access tier has the lowest storage cost. However, this tier has higher data retrieval costs with a higher latency as compared to the hot, cool, and cold tiers.
This article explains how to calculate the cost of using archive storage and then presents a few example scenarios.
Calculate costs
The cost to archive data is derived from these three components:
Cost to write data to the archive tier
Cost to store data in the archive tier
Cost to rehydrate data from the archive tier
The following sections show you how to calculate each component.
This article uses fictitious prices in all calculations. You can find these sample prices in theSample pricessection at the end of this article. These prices are meant only as examples, and shouldn't be used to calculate your costs.
For official prices, seeAzure Blob Storage pricingorAzure Data Lake Storage pricing. For more information about how to choose the correct pricing page, seeUnderstand the full billing model for Azure Blob Storage.
You can calculate the cost of writing to the archive tier by multiplying thenumber of write operationsby theprice of each operation. The price of an operation depends on which ones you use to write data to the archive tier.
If you use thePut Bloboperation, then the number of operations is the same as the number of blobs. For example, if you plan to write 30,000 blobs to the archive tier, then that requires 30,000 operations. Each operation is charged the price of anarchivewrite operation.
Tip
Operations are billed per 10,000. Therefore, if the price per 10,000 operations is $0.10, then the price of a single operation is $0.10 / 10,000 = $0.00001.
If you upload a blob by using thePut BlockandPut Block Listoperations, then an upload requires multiple operations, and each of those operations are charged separately. EachPut Blockoperation is charged at the price of a write operation for the accounts default access tier. The number ofPut Blockoperations that you need depends on the block size that you specify to upload the data. For example, if the blob size is 100 MiB and you choose block size to 10 MiB when you upload that blob, you would use 10Put Blockoperations. Blocks are written (committed) to the archive tier by using thePut Block Listoperation. That operation is charged the price of anarchivewrite operation. Therefore, to upload a single blob, your cost is (number of blocks*price of a hot write operation) + price of an archive write operation.
Note
If you're not using an SDK or the REST API directly, you might have to investigate which operations your data transfer tool is using to upload files. You might be able to determine this by reaching out the tool provider or by using storage logs.
If you use theSet Blob Tieroperation to move a blob from the cool, cold, or hot tier to the archive tier, you're charged the price of anarchivewrite operation.
You can calculate the storage costs by multiplying thesize of the datain GB by theprice of archive storage.
For example (assuming the sample pricing), if you plan to store 10 TB to the archive tier, the capacity cost is $0.002 * 10 * 1024 = $20.48 per month.
Blobs in the archive tier are offline and can't be read or modified. To read or modify data in an archived blob, you must first rehydrate the blob to an online tier (either the hot cool, or cold tier).
You can calculate the cost to rehydrate data by adding thecost to retrieve datato thecost of reading the data.
Assuming sample pricing, the cost of retrieving 1 GB of data from the archive tier would be 1 * $0.022 = $0.022.
Read operations are billed per 10,000. Therefore, if the cost per 10,000 operations is $5.50, then the cost of a single operation is $5.50 / 10,000 = $0.00055. The cost of reading 1000 blobs at standard priority is 1000 * $0.0005 = $0.50.
In this example, the total cost to rehydrate (retrieving + reading) would be $0.022 + $0.50 = $0.52.
Note
If you set the rehydration priority to high, then the data retrieval and read rates increase.
If you plan to rehydrate data, you should try to avoid an early deletion fee. To review your options, seeBlob rehydration from the archive tier.
Scenario: One-time data backup
This scenario assumes that you plan to remove on-premises tapes or file servers by migrating backup data to cloud storage. If you don't expect users to access that data often, then it might make sense to migrate that data directly to the archive tier. In the first month, you'd assume the cost of writing data to the archive tier. In the remaining months, you'd pay only for the cost to store the data and the cost to rehydrate data as needed for the occasional read operation.
Using theSample pricesthat appear in this article, the following table demonstrates three months of spending.
This scenario assumes an initial ingest of 2,000,000 files totaling 102,400 GB in size to archive. It also assumes one-time read each month of about 1% of archived capacity. The operation used this scenario is thePut Bloboperation. This scenario also assumes that blobs are rehydrated bycopying blobsinstead ofchanging the blob's access tier.
Tip
To model costs over 12 months, open theOne-Time Backuptab of thisworkbook. You can update the prices and values in that worksheet to estimate your costs.
Scenario: Continuous tiering
This scenario assumes that you plan to periodically move data to the archive tier. Perhaps you're usingBlob Storage inventory reportsto gauge which blobs are accessed less frequently, and then usinglifecycle management policiesto automate the archival process.
Each month, you'd assume the cost of writing to the archive tier. The cost to store and then rehydrate data would increase over time as you archive more blobs.
Using theSample pricesthat appear in this article, the following table demonstrates three months of spending.
This scenario assumes a monthly ingest of 200,000 files totaling 10,240 GB in size to archive. It also assumes a one-time read each month of about 1% of archived capacity. The operation used this scenario is thePut Bloboperation.
Tip
To model costs over 12 months, open theContinuous Tieringtab of thisworkbook. You can update the prices and values in that worksheet to estimate your costs.
Archive versus cold and cool
Archive storage is the lowest cost tier. However, it can take up to 15 hours to rehydrate 10-GiB files. To learn more, seeBlob rehydration from the archive tier. The archive tier might not be the best fit if your workloads must read data quickly. The cool tier offers a near real-time read latency with a lower price than that the hot tier. Understanding your access requirements helps you to choose between the cool, cold, and archive tiers.
The following table compares the cost of archive storage with the cost of cool and cold storage by using theSample pricesthat appear in this article. This scenario assumes a monthly ingest of 200,000 files totaling 10,240 GB in size to archive. It also assumes 1 read each month about 10% of stored capacity (1,024 GB), and 10% of total operations (20,000).
Tip
To model your costs, open theChoose Tierstab of thisworkbook. You can update the prices and values in that worksheet to estimate your costs.
The following chart shows the impact on monthly spending given various read percentages. This chart assumes a monthly ingest of 1,000,000 files totaling 10,240 GB in size. Assuming sample pricing, this chart shows a break-even point at or around the 25% read level. After that level, the cost of archive storage begins to rise relative to the cost of cool storage.

Sample prices
The following table includes sample (fictitious) prices for each request to the Blob Service endpoint (blob.core.windows.net).
blob.core.windows.net
Important
These prices are meant only as examples, and shouldn't be used to calculate your costs. For official prices, see theAzure Blob Storage pricingorAzure Data Lake Storage pricingpages. For more information about how to choose the correct pricing page, seeUnderstand the full billing model for Azure Blob Storage.
The following table includes sample prices (fictitious) prices for each request to the Data Lake Storage endpoint (dfs.core.windows.net). For official prices, seeAzure Data Lake Storage pricing.
dfs.core.windows.net
Next steps
Set a blob's access tier
Archive a blob
Optimize costs by automatically managing the data lifecycle
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources