Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Deploy Azure landing zones
Article
2025-02-26
24 contributors
In this article
This article describes the options available to help you deploy both platform and application landing zones. Platform landing zones provide centralized services that workloads use. Application landing zones are environments deployed for the workloads themselves.
Important
For more information about definitions and implementations for platform landing zones versus application landing zones, seeWhat is an Azure landing zone?.
Choose a platform landing zone approach
The following platform deployment options provide an opinionated approach to deploy and operate theAzure landing zone conceptual architectureas described in the Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure. The resulting architecture can vary based on the customizations, so it might not be the same for all the deployment options listed in this article. The differences between the platform deployment options are based on their use of different technologies, approaches, and customizations.
Standard deployment options
Standard deployment options address typical enterprise Azure usage.
Variants and specializations
Thestandard platform deployment optionsaddress typical enterprise Azure usage, but some deployment options focus on specific specializations. For instance, asovereign landing zoneis a variant of the Azure landing zone designed for organizations that require advanced sovereign controls.
Partner programs such asAzure Migrate and Modernizecan help you design and implement a platform landing zone that's specific to your organization's needs. Those implementations start with theAzure landing zone conceptual architectureand design configurations that are specific to your cloud adoption strategy, organizational topology, and desired outcomes.
Enterprise policy as code (EPAC)is an alternative method to deploy, manage, and operate Azure Policy across your organization's Azure estate. You can use EPAC instead of thestandard platform optionsto manage the policies in an Azure landing zone environment. For more information about the integration approach, seeIntegrate EPAC with Azure landing zones.
EPAC is best suited for more advanced DevOps and IaC customers. However, organizations of any scale can use EPAC after they assess it. For more information, seeWho should use EPAC?.
Note
Compare the lifecycle and flexibility of the two approaches before you decide on what approach to use long term. Begin by evaluating the native policy management in thedefault implementation. If that implementation doesn't suit your governance needs, then perform an MVP or proof of concept by using EPAC. It's important that you compare options, validate your findings, and confirm your choice before you implement an approach because it's difficult to change policy governance methods after you establish them.
Operate Azure landing zones
After you deploy the platform landing zone, you need to operate and maintain it. For more information, seeKeep your Azure landing zone up to date.
Azure governance visualizer
Azure governance visualizercan help you get a holistic overview of your technical Azure governance implementation by connecting the dots and providing sophisticated reports.
Subscription vending
After the platform landing zone and governance strategy is in place, the next step is to establish consistency about how subscriptions are created and operationalized for workload owners.Subscription democratizationis a design principle of Azure landing zones that uses subscriptions as units of management and scale. This approach accelerates application migrations and new application development.
Subscription vendingstandardizes the process that platform teams use for workload teams to request subscriptions and platform teams to deploy and govern those subscriptions. It allows application teams to access Azure in a consistent and governed way, which helps ensure that requirements gathering is complete.
Organizations often have various styles of subscriptions that can be vended into their tenant, commonly referred to asproduct lines. For more information, seeEstablish common subscription vending product lines.
To get started, follow thesubscription vending implementation guidance. Then review the following IaC modules, which provide flexibility to fit your implementation needs.
Application landing zone architectures
Application landing zones are designated areas within one or more subscriptions, specifically set up as approved destinations for resources that application teams manage for a specific workload. A workload can take advantage of services in platform landing zones or remain isolated from those centralized resources. Use application landing zones for centrally managed applications, decentralized workloads that application teams own, and centrally managed hosting platforms such as Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) that could host applications for multiple business units. Unless constrained by unusual circumstances, application landing zone subscriptions typically include resources from only a single workload or logical application boundary, such as its lifecycle or criticality classification.
Workload teams communicate their workload's requirements through a formal process that the platform team establishes. The platform team generally deploys an empty subscription that's enrolled with all required governance. Then a workload architect designs a solution that works within the constraints of that application landing zone and takes advantage of shared platform features, such as firewalls and cross-premises routing, when practical.
It's possible for an architect to adapt a reference architecture that isn't designed specifically with an application landing zone in mind. However, Microsoft Learn also contains application and data platform guidance for workload teams that specifically addresses application landing zone contexts. Make the platform teams aware of the guidance that's available to the workload teams so that the platform team can anticipate the workload types and characteristics that might be in the organization.
Workloads often consist of various technologies and classifications. We recommend that you review related reference materials for all the technologies in your workload. For example, understanding the guidance from Azure OpenAI chat and API Management is crucial to determine if your generative AI scenario can benefit from incorporating an API gateway.
Next step
Design your subscription vending solution
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources