Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Features comparison: Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance
Article
2025-03-13
45 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL DatabaseAzure SQL Managed Instance
Azure SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance share a common code base with the latest stable version of SQL Server.
Most of the standard SQL language, query processing, and database management features are identical. The features that are common between SQL Server and SQL Database or SQL Managed Instance are:
Language features -Control of flow language keywords,Cursors,Data types,DML statements,Predicates,Sequence numbers,Stored procedures, andVariables.
Database features -Automatic tuning (plan forcing),Change tracking,Database collation,Contained databases,Contained users,Data compression,Database configuration settings,Online index operations,Partitioning, andTemporal tables.
Security features -Application roles,Dynamic data masking,Row Level Security, and Advanced Threat Protection (see getting started guides forSQL DatabaseandSQL Managed Instance.)
Multi-model capabilities -Graph processing,JSON data,OPENXML,Spatial,OPENJSON, andXML indexes. For more information, seeMulti-model capabilities of Azure SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance.
Azure manages your databases and guarantees their high-availability. Some features that might affect high-availability or can't be used in PaaS world have limited functionalities in SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance. These features are described in the tables below.
If you need more details about the differences, you can find them in the separate pages:
T-SQL differences between SQL Server and Azure SQL Database
T-SQL differences
Features of SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance
The following table lists the major features of SQL Server and provides information about whether the feature is partially or fully supported in Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance, with a link to more information about the feature.
BACKUP
CREATE
BACKUP
CREATE
SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS
COLLATE
CATALOG_COLLATION
CREATE ASSEMBLY
SHARED ACCESS SIGNATURE
CREATE LOGIN
ALTER LOGIN
EXECUTE AS LOGIN
EXECUTE AS USER
OPENROWSET
FROM URL
Note
Some Azure SQL Managed Instance feature availability depends on the configured instanceupdate policy.
Platform capabilities
The Azure platform provides a number of PaaS capabilities that are added as an additional value to the standard database features. There are a number of external services that can be used with Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance.
Resource limits
The following table compares the maximum resource limits available for Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance:
To learn more about resource limits for Azure SQL Database, review:
Logical server
In the vCore model:single databases,elastic pools
In the DTU model:single databases,elastic pools
To learn more about resource limits for Azure SQL Managed Instance, review:Resource limits.
Tools
Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance support various data tools that can help you manage your data.
Migration methods
You can use different migration methods to move your data between SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, and Azure SQL Managed Instance. Some methods areOnlineand picking-up all changes that are made on the source while you're running migration, while inOfflinemethods you need to stop your workload that is modifying data on the source while the migration is in progress.
Related content
Microsoft continues to add features to Azure SQL Database. Visit the Service Updates webpage for Azure for the newest updates using these filters:
Filtered toAzure SQL Database.
Filtered toGeneral Availability (GA) announcementsfor SQL Database features.
For more information about Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance, see:
What is Azure SQL Database?
What is Azure SQL Managed Instance?
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources