Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Choose a stream processing technology in Azure
Article
2024-09-06
24 contributors
In this article
This article compares technology choices for real-time stream processing in Azure.
Real-time stream processing consumes messages from either queue or file-based storage, processes the messages, and forwards the result to another message queue, file store, or database. Processing may include querying, filtering, and aggregating messages. Stream processing engines must be able to consume endless streams of data and produce results with minimal latency. For more information, seeReal time processing.
What are your options when choosing a technology for real-time processing?
In Azure, all of the following data stores will meet the core requirements supporting real-time processing:
Azure Stream Analytics
HDInsight with Spark Streaming
Apache Spark in Azure Databricks
Azure Functions
Azure App Service WebJobs
Apache Kafka streams API
Key Selection Criteria
For real-time processing scenarios, begin choosing the appropriate service for your needs by answering these questions:
Do you prefer a declarative or imperative approach to authoring stream processing logic?
Do you prefer a declarative or imperative approach to authoring stream processing logic?
Do you need built-in support for temporal processing or windowing?
Do you need built-in support for temporal processing or windowing?
Does your data arrive in formats besides Avro, JSON, or CSV? If yes, consider options that support any format using custom code.
Does your data arrive in formats besides Avro, JSON, or CSV? If yes, consider options that support any format using custom code.
Do you need to scale your processing beyond 1 GBps? If yes, consider the options that scale with the cluster size.
Do you need to scale your processing beyond 1 GBps? If yes, consider the options that scale with the cluster size.
Capability matrix
The following tables summarize the key differences in capabilities.
General capabilities
Integration capabilities
Processing capabilities
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Zoiner Tejada| CEO and Architect
Next steps
App Service overview
Explore Azure Functions
Get started with Azure Stream Analytics
Perform advanced streaming data transformations
Set up clusters in HDInsight
Use Apache Spark in Azure Databricks
Related resources
Real time processing
Stream processing with Azure Stream Analytics
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources