Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Get started with the Cloud Adoption Framework
Article
2024-12-12
12 contributors
In this article
The Cloud Adoption Framework can help you get started with several different getting started guides. This article groups the guides to help you find the one that best aligns with your current challenges.
Each of the following links takes you to questions that are typically asked when an organization is trying to accomplish a certain goal during their cloud adoption journey.
Choose the cloud adoption scenario that best supports your strategy
Examine antipatterns across methodologies and their solutions
Align foundational concepts to onboard a person, project, or team
Adopt the cloud to deliver business and technical outcomes sooner
Improve controls to ensure proper operations of the cloud
Cloud adoption scenarios
Your organization's cloud adoption effort should support long-term strategic goals for your cloud journey. We have cloud adoption guidance for different scenarios including hybrid and multicloud, modern application platforms, SAP, defense, and more.
Scenarios overview
Hybrid and multicloud
Modern application platform
SAP
Desktop virtualization
Defense
Cloud adoption antipatterns
You might encounter missteps with design, planning, or implementation when migrating to the cloud. We have updated detailed guidance onantipatternsthat can block innovation and prevent businesses from adopting and realizing goals.
Align foundation
Your company's cloud adoption journey is guided with foundational decisions that affect the outcomes of your cloud adoption journey. The following information can help you make core decisions, and record them as a reference to be used during the cloud adoption lifecycle.
Get started aligning foundation decisions
How does Azure work
Fundamental concepts
Portfolio hierarchy
Azure hierarchy support
Accelerate adoption
Cloud adoption requires technical change, but to digitally transform with the cloud, it requires more than just IT. Use these guides to start aligning various teams to accelerate migration and innovation efforts.
Improve controls
As your cloud adoption journey progresses, a solid operating model can help ensure that wise decisions are made. You'll also want to consider organizational change. These guides help you align people and improve operations to develop your cloud operating model.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources