Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Quickstart: Create an Azure Synapse Analytics workspace by using an ARM template
Article
2024-08-12
10 contributors
In this article
This Azure Resource Manager template (ARM template) creates an Azure Synapse Analytics workspace with underlying Azure Data Lake Storage. The Azure Synapse Analytics workspace is a securable collaboration boundary for analytics processes in Azure Synapse Analytics.
AnAzure Resource Manager templateis a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file that defines the infrastructure and configuration for your project. The template uses declarative syntax. You describe your intended deployment without writing the sequence of programming commands to create the deployment.
If your environment meets the prerequisites and you're familiar with using ARM templates, selectDeploy to Azure. The template opens in the Azure portal.

Prerequisites
If you don't have an Azure subscription, create afree accountbefore you begin.
To create an Azure Synapse Analytics workspace, you must have the Azure Contributor role and User Access Administrator permissions, or the Owner role in the subscription. For more information, seeAssign Azure roles by using the Azure portal.
Review the template
You can review the template by selecting theVisualizelink. Then selectEdit template.

The template defines two resources:
Storage account
Workspace
Deploy the template
Select the following image to sign in to Azure and open the template. This template creates an Azure Synapse Analytics workspace.
Select the following image to sign in to Azure and open the template. This template creates an Azure Synapse Analytics workspace.

Enter or update the following values:Subscription: Select an Azure subscription.Resource group: SelectCreate newand enter a unique name for the resource group and selectOK. A new resource group facilitates resource clean-up.Region: Select a region. An example isCentral US.Name: Enter a name for your workspace.SQL Administrator login: Enter the administrator username for the SQL Server.SQL Administrator password: Enter the administrator password for the SQL Server.Tag Values: Accept the default.Review and Create: Select.Create: Select.
Enter or update the following values:
Subscription: Select an Azure subscription.
Resource group: SelectCreate newand enter a unique name for the resource group and selectOK. A new resource group facilitates resource clean-up.
Region: Select a region. An example isCentral US.
Name: Enter a name for your workspace.
SQL Administrator login: Enter the administrator username for the SQL Server.
SQL Administrator password: Enter the administrator password for the SQL Server.
Tag Values: Accept the default.
Review and Create: Select.
Create: Select.
After it's deployed, more permissions are required:In the Azure portal, assign other users of the workspace to the Contributor role in the workspace. For more information, seeAssign Azure roles by using the Azure portal.Assign other users the appropriateAzure Synapse Analytics role-based access control rolesby using Synapse Studio.A member of the Owner role of the Azure Storage account must assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to the Azure Synapse Analytics workspace managed service identity and other users.
After it's deployed, more permissions are required:
In the Azure portal, assign other users of the workspace to the Contributor role in the workspace. For more information, seeAssign Azure roles by using the Azure portal.
Assign other users the appropriateAzure Synapse Analytics role-based access control rolesby using Synapse Studio.
A member of the Owner role of the Azure Storage account must assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to the Azure Synapse Analytics workspace managed service identity and other users.
Related content
To learn more about Azure Synapse Analytics and Resource Manager:
Read anOverview of Azure Synapse Analytics.
Learn more aboutAzure Resource Manager.
Create and deploy your first ARM template.
Next, you cancreate SQL poolsorcreate Apache Spark poolsto start analyzing and exploring your data.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources