Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Set up Visual Studio Code desktop with the Azure Machine Learning extension
Article
2025-03-25
10 contributors
In this article
Learn how to set up the Azure Machine Learning Visual Studio Code extension for your machine learning workflows. You only need to do this setup when using the VS Code desktop application. If you use VS Code for the Web, this is handled for you.
The Azure Machine Learning extension for VS Code provides a user interface to:
Manage Azure Machine Learning resources (experiments, virtual machines, models, deployments, etc.)
Develop locally using remote compute instances
Train machine learning models
Debug machine learning experiments locally
Schema-based language support, autocompletion and diagnostics for specification file authoring
Prerequisites
Azure subscription. If you don't have one, sign up to try thefree or paid version of Azure Machine Learning.
Visual Studio Code. If you don't have it,install it.
Python
(Optional) To create resources using the extension, you need to install the CLI (v2). For setup instructions, seeInstall, set up, and use the CLI (v2).
Clone the community driven repositorygit clone https://github.com/Azure/azureml-examples.git --depth 1
git clone https://github.com/Azure/azureml-examples.git --depth 1
git clone https://github.com/Azure/azureml-examples.git --depth 1
Install the extension
Open Visual Studio Code.
Open Visual Studio Code.
SelectExtensionsicon from theActivity Barto open the Extensions view.
SelectExtensionsicon from theActivity Barto open the Extensions view.
In the Extensions view search bar, type "Azure Machine Learning" and select the first extension.
In the Extensions view search bar, type "Azure Machine Learning" and select the first extension.
SelectInstall.
SelectInstall.

Note
The Azure Machine Learning VS Code extension uses the CLI (v2) by default. To switch to the 1.0 CLI, set theazureML.CLI Compatibility Modesetting in Visual Studio Code to1.0. For more information on modifying your settings in Visual Studio, see theuser and workspace settings documentation.
azureML.CLI Compatibility Mode
1.0
Sign in to your Azure Account
In order to provision resources and job workloads on Azure, you have to sign in with your Azure account credentials. To assist with account management, Azure Machine Learning automatically installs the Azure Account extension. Visit the following site tolearn more about the Azure Account extension.
To sign into your Azure account, select theAzure: Sign Inbutton in the bottom right corner on the Visual Studio Code status bar to start the sign in process.
Choose your default workspace
Choosing a default Azure Machine Learning workspace enables the following when authoring CLI (v2) YAML specification files:
Schema validation
Autocompletion
Diagnostics
If you don't have a workspace, create one. For more information, seemanage Azure Machine Learning resources with the VS Code extension.
To choose your default workspace, select theSet Azure Machine Learning Workspacebutton on the Visual Studio Code status bar and follow the prompts to set your workspace.
Alternatively, use the> Azure ML: Set Default Workspacecommand in the command palette and follow the prompts to set your workspace.
> Azure ML: Set Default Workspace
To open the command palette, PressCommandandPon your keyboard. Then type> Azure ML: Set Default Workspace.
Command
P
> Azure ML: Set Default Workspace
Next Steps
Manage your Azure Machine Learning resources
Develop on a remote compute instance locally
Train an image classification model using the Visual Studio Code extension
Run and debug machine learning experiments locally (CLI v1)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources