Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Service limits, quotas, and constraints
Article
2025-02-20
5 contributors
In this article
Azure Managed Grafana delivers the native Grafana functionality in the highest possible fidelity. There are some differences between what it provides and what you can get by self-hosting Grafana. As a general rule, Azure Managed Grafana disables features and settings that might affect the security or reliability of the service and individual Grafana workspaces it manages.
Service limits
Azure Managed Grafana has the following known limitations:
All users must have accounts in Microsoft Entra ID. Third-party accounts aren't supported. As a workaround, use the default tenant of your Azure subscription with your Grafana workspace and add other users as guests.
All users must have accounts in Microsoft Entra ID. Third-party accounts aren't supported. As a workaround, use the default tenant of your Azure subscription with your Grafana workspace and add other users as guests.
Installing, uninstalling and upgrading plugins from the Grafana Catalog isn't possible.
Installing, uninstalling and upgrading plugins from the Grafana Catalog isn't possible.
Querying Azure Data Explorer might take a long time or return 50x errors. To resolve these issues, use a table format instead of a time series, shorten the time duration, or avoid having many panels querying the same data cluster that can trigger throttling.
Querying Azure Data Explorer might take a long time or return 50x errors. To resolve these issues, use a table format instead of a time series, shorten the time duration, or avoid having many panels querying the same data cluster that can trigger throttling.
Users can be assigned the following Grafana Organization level roles: Admin, Editor, or Viewer. The Grafana Server Admin role isn't available to customers.
Users can be assigned the following Grafana Organization level roles: Admin, Editor, or Viewer. The Grafana Server Admin role isn't available to customers.
Some Data plane APIs require Grafana Server Admin permissions and can't be called by users. This includes theAdmin API, theUser APIand theAdmin Organizations API.
Some Data plane APIs require Grafana Server Admin permissions and can't be called by users. This includes theAdmin API, theUser APIand theAdmin Organizations API.
Azure Managed Grafana currently doesn't support the Grafana Role Based Access Control (RBAC) feature and theRBAC APIis therefore disabled.
Azure Managed Grafana currently doesn't support the Grafana Role Based Access Control (RBAC) feature and theRBAC APIis therefore disabled.
Unified alerting is enabled by default for all workspaces created after December 2022. For workspaces created before this date, unified alerting must be enabled manually by the Azure Managed Grafana team. For activation,open a support ticket.
Unified alerting is enabled by default for all workspaces created after December 2022. For workspaces created before this date, unified alerting must be enabled manually by the Azure Managed Grafana team. For activation,open a support ticket.
Only Azure subscriptions billed directly through Microsoft are eligible for the purchase of Grafana Enterprise. CSP subscriptions, i.e., Azure subscriptions billed through Cloud Solution Providers (CSP), are ineligible.
Only Azure subscriptions billed directly through Microsoft are eligible for the purchase of Grafana Enterprise. CSP subscriptions, i.e., Azure subscriptions billed through Cloud Solution Providers (CSP), are ineligible.
Current User authentication
TheCurrent Userauthentication option triggers the following limitation. Grafana offers some automated features such as alerts and reporting, that are expected to run in the background periodically. The Current User authentication method relies on a user being logged in, in an interactive session, to connect a data source to a database. Therefore, when this authentication method is used and no user is logged in, automated tasks can't run in the background. To leverage automated tasks, we recommend setting up another data source with another authentication method orconfiguring alerts in Azure Monitor.
Feature availability in sovereign clouds
Some Azure Managed Grafana features aren't available in Azure Government and Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet due to limitations in these specific environments. The following table lists these differences.
Throttling limits and quotas
The following quotas apply to the Essential (preview) and Standard plans.
Note
Grafana Enterprise is an option within the Standard plan, not a separate plan within Azure. The information listed below for the Standard plan also applies to Standard workspaces with Grafana Enterprise enabled.
Each data source also has its own limits that can be reflected in Azure Managed Grafana dashboards, alerts and reports. We recommend that you research these limits in the documentation of each data source provider. For instance:
Refer toAzure Monitorto learn about Azure Monitor service limits including alerts, Prometheus metrics, data collection, logs and more.
Refer toAzure Data Explorerto learn about Azure Data Explorer service limits.
Managed identities
Each Azure Managed Grafana workspace can only be assigned one managed identity, user-assigned or system-assigned, but not both.
Related links
TroubleshootingSupport
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources