Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Storage considerations for Azure Functions
Article
2024-07-30
23 contributors
In this article
Azure Functions requires an Azure Storage account when you create a function app instance. The following storage services could be used by your function app:
Blob storage is the default store for function keys, but you canconfigure an alternate store.
Azure Files is set up by default, but you cancreate an app without Azure Filesunder certain conditions.
Important considerations
You must strongly consider the following facts regarding the storage accounts used by your function apps:
When your function app is hosted on the Consumption plan or Premium plan, your function code and configuration files are stored in Azure Files in the linked storage account. When you delete this storage account, the content is deleted and can't be recovered. For more information, seeStorage account was deleted
When your function app is hosted on the Consumption plan or Premium plan, your function code and configuration files are stored in Azure Files in the linked storage account. When you delete this storage account, the content is deleted and can't be recovered. For more information, seeStorage account was deleted
Important data, such as function code,access keys, and other important service-related data, can be persisted in the storage account. You must carefully manage access to the storage accounts used by function apps in the following ways:Audit and limit the access of apps and users to the storage account based on a least-privilege model. Permissions to the storage account can come fromdata actions in the assigned roleor through permission to perform thelistKeys operation.Monitor both control plane activity (such as retrieving keys) and data plane operations (such as writing to a blob) in your storage account. Consider maintaining storage logs in a location other than Azure Storage. For more information, seeStorage logs.
Important data, such as function code,access keys, and other important service-related data, can be persisted in the storage account. You must carefully manage access to the storage accounts used by function apps in the following ways:
Audit and limit the access of apps and users to the storage account based on a least-privilege model. Permissions to the storage account can come fromdata actions in the assigned roleor through permission to perform thelistKeys operation.
Audit and limit the access of apps and users to the storage account based on a least-privilege model. Permissions to the storage account can come fromdata actions in the assigned roleor through permission to perform thelistKeys operation.
Monitor both control plane activity (such as retrieving keys) and data plane operations (such as writing to a blob) in your storage account. Consider maintaining storage logs in a location other than Azure Storage. For more information, seeStorage logs.
Monitor both control plane activity (such as retrieving keys) and data plane operations (such as writing to a blob) in your storage account. Consider maintaining storage logs in a location other than Azure Storage. For more information, seeStorage logs.
Storage account requirements
Storage accounts created as part of the function app create flow in the Azure portal are guaranteed to work with the new function app. When you choose to use an existing storage account, the list provided doesn't include certain unsupported storage accounts. The following restrictions apply to storage accounts used by your function app, so you must make sure an existing storage account meets these requirements:
The account type must support Blob, Queue, and Table storage. Some storage accounts don't support queues and tables. These accounts include blob-only storage accounts and Azure Premium Storage. To learn more about storage account types, seeStorage account overview.
The account type must support Blob, Queue, and Table storage. Some storage accounts don't support queues and tables. These accounts include blob-only storage accounts and Azure Premium Storage. To learn more about storage account types, seeStorage account overview.
You can't use a network-secured storage account when your function app is hosted in theConsumption plan.
You can't use a network-secured storage account when your function app is hosted in theConsumption plan.
When creating your function app in the portal, you're only allowed to choose an existing storage account in the same region as the function app you're creating. This is a performance optimization and not a strict limitation. To learn more, seeStorage account location.
When creating your function app in the portal, you're only allowed to choose an existing storage account in the same region as the function app you're creating. This is a performance optimization and not a strict limitation. To learn more, seeStorage account location.
When creating your function app on a plan withavailability zone supportenabled, onlyzone-redundant storage accountsare supported.
When creating your function app on a plan withavailability zone supportenabled, onlyzone-redundant storage accountsare supported.
When using deployment automation to create your function app with a network-secured storage account, you must include specific networking configurations in your ARM template or Bicep file. When you don't include these settings and resources, your automated deployment might fail in validation. For more specific ARM and Bicep guidance, seeSecured deployments. For an overview on configuring storage accounts with networking, seeHow to use a secured storage account with Azure Functions.
Storage account guidance
Every function app requires a storage account to operate. When that account is deleted, your function app won't run. To troubleshoot storage-related issues, seeHow to troubleshoot storage-related issues. The following other considerations apply to the Storage account used by function apps.
Storage account location
For best performance, your function app should use a storage account in the same region, which reduces latency. The Azure portal enforces this best practice. If for some reason you need to use a storage account in a region different than your function app, you must create your function app outside of the portal.
The storage account must be accessible to the function app. If you need to use a secured storage account, considerrestricting your storage account to a virtual network.
Storage account connection setting
By default, function apps configure theAzureWebJobsStorageconnection as a connection string stored in theAzureWebJobsStorage application setting, but you can alsoconfigure AzureWebJobsStorage to use an identity-based connectionwithout a secret.
AzureWebJobsStorage
Function apps running in a Consumption plan (Windows only) or an Elastic Premium plan (Windows or Linux) can use Azure Files to store the images required to enable dynamic scaling. For these plans, set the connection string for the storage account in theWEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRINGsetting and the name of the file share in theWEBSITE_CONTENTSHAREsetting. This is usually the same account used forAzureWebJobsStorage. You can alsocreate a function app that doesn't use Azure Files, but scaling might be limited.
AzureWebJobsStorage
Note
A storage account connection string must be updated when you regenerate storage keys.Read more about storage key management here.
Shared storage accounts
It's possible for multiple function apps to share the same storage account without any issues. For example, in Visual Studio you can develop multiple apps using theAzurite storage emulator. In this case, the emulator acts like a single storage account. The same storage account used by your function app can also be used to store your application data. However, this approach isn't always a good idea in a production environment.
You might need to use separate storage accounts toavoid host ID collisions.
Lifecycle management policy considerations
You shouldn't applylifecycle management policiesto your Blob Storage account used by your function app. Functions uses Blob storage to persist important information, such asfunction access keys, and policies could remove blobs (such as keys) needed by the Functions host. If you must use policies, exclude containers used by Functions, which are prefixed withazure-webjobsorscm.
azure-webjobs
scm
Storage logs
Because function code and keys might be persisted in the storage account, logging of activity against the storage account is a good way to monitor for unauthorized access. Azure Monitor resource logs can be used to track events against the storage data plane. SeeMonitoring Azure Storagefor details on how to configure and examine these logs.
TheAzure Monitor activity logshows control plane events, including thelistKeys operation. However, you should also configure resource logs for the storage account to track subsequent use of keys or other identity-based data plane operations. You should have at least theStorageWrite log categoryenabled to be able to identify modifications to the data outside of normal Functions operations.
To limit the potential impact of any broadly scoped storage permissions, consider using a nonstorage destination for these logs, such as Log Analytics. For more information, seeMonitoring Azure Blob Storage.
Optimize storage performance
To maximize performance, use a separate storage account for each function app. This is particularly important when you have Durable Functions or Event Hub triggered functions, which both generate a high volume of storage transactions. When your application logic interacts with Azure Storage, either directly (using the Storage SDK) or through one of the storage bindings, you should use a dedicated storage account. For example, if you have an Event Hub-triggered function writing some data to blob storage, use two storage accounts—one for the function app and another for the blobs being stored by the function.
Consistent routing through virtual networks
Multiple function apps hosted in the same plan can also use the same storage account for the Azure Files content share (defined byWEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRING). When this storage account is also secured by a virtual network, all of these apps should also use the same value forvnetContentShareEnabled(formerlyWEBSITE_CONTENTOVERVNET) to guarantee that traffic is routed consistently through the intended virtual network. A mismatch in this setting between apps using the same Azure Files storage account might result in traffic being routed through public networks, which causes access to be blocked by storage account network rules.
WEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRING
vnetContentShareEnabled
WEBSITE_CONTENTOVERVNET
Working with blobs
A key scenario for Functions is file processing of files in a blob container, such as for image processing or sentiment analysis. To learn more, seeProcess file uploads.
Trigger on a blob container
There are several ways to execute your function code based on changes to blobs in a storage container. Use the following table to determine which function trigger best fits your needs:
Source
EventGrid
Blob storage input and output bindings support blob-only accounts.
High scale can be loosely defined as containers that have more than 100,000 blobs in them or storage accounts that have more than 100 blob updates per second.
Storage data encryption
Azure Storage encrypts all data in a storage account at rest. For more information, seeAzure Storage encryption for data at rest.
By default, data is encrypted with Microsoft-managed keys. For additional control over encryption keys, you can supply customer-managed keys to use for encryption of blob and file data. These keys must be present in Azure Key Vault for Functions to be able to access the storage account. To learn more, seeEncryption at rest using customer-managed keys.
In-region data residency
When all customer data must remain within a single region, the storage account associated with the function app must be one within-region redundancy. An in-region redundant storage account also must be used withAzure Durable Functions.
Other platform-managed customer data is only stored within the region when hosting in an internally load-balanced App Service Environment (ASE). To learn more, seeASE zone redundancy.
Host ID considerations
Functions uses a host ID value as a way to uniquely identify a particular function app in stored artifacts. By default, this ID is autogenerated from the name of the function app, truncated to the first 32 characters. This ID is then used when storing per-app correlation and tracking information in the linked storage account. When you have function apps with names longer than 32 characters and when the first 32 characters are identical, this truncation can result in duplicate host ID values. When two function apps with identical host IDs use the same storage account, you get a host ID collision because stored data can't be uniquely linked to the correct function app.
Note
This same kind of host ID collision can occur between a function app in a production slot and the same function app in a staging slot, when both slots use the same storage account.
Starting with version 3.x of the Functions runtime, host ID collision is detected and a warning is logged. In version 4.x, an error is logged and the host is stopped, resulting in a hard failure. More details about host ID collision can be found inthis issue.
Avoiding host ID collisions
You can use the following strategies to avoid host ID collisions:
Use a separated storage account for each function app or slot involved in the collision.
Rename one of your function apps to a value fewer than 32 characters in length, which changes the computed host ID for the app and removes the collision.
Set an explicit host ID for one or more of the colliding apps. To learn more, seeHost ID override.
Important
Changing the storage account associated with an existing function app or changing the app's host ID can impact the behavior of existing functions. For example, a Blob storage trigger tracks whether it's processed individual blobs by writing receipts under a specific host ID path in storage. When the host ID changes or you point to a new storage account, previously processed blobs could be reprocessed.
Override the host ID
You can explicitly set a specific host ID for your function app in the application settings by using theAzureFunctionsWebHost__hostidsetting. For more information, seeAzureFunctionsWebHost__hostid.
AzureFunctionsWebHost__hostid
When the collision occurs between slots, you must set a specific host ID for each slot, including the production slot. You must also mark these settings asdeployment settingsso they don't get swapped. To learn how to create app settings, seeWork with application settings.
Azure Arc-enabled clusters
When your function app is deployed to an Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster, a storage account might not be required by your function app. In this case, a storage account is only required by Functions when your function app uses a trigger that requires storage. The following table indicates which triggers might require a storage account and which don't.
To create a function app on an Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster without storage, you must use the Azure CLI commandaz functionapp create. The version of the Azure CLI must include version 0.1.7 or a later version of theappservice-kube extension. Use theaz --versioncommand to verify that the extension is installed and is the correct version.
az --version
Creating your function app resources using methods other than the Azure CLI requires an existing storage account. If you plan to use any triggers that require a storage account, you should create the account before you create the function app.
Create an app without Azure Files
The Azure Files service provides a shared file system that supports high-scale scenarios. When your function app runs on Windows in an Elastic Premium or Consumption plan, an Azure Files share is created by default in your storage account. That share is used by Functions to enable certain features, like log streaming. It is also used as a shared package deployment location, which guarantees the consistency of your deployed function code across all instances.
By default, function apps hosted in Premium and Consumption plans usezip deployment, with deployment packages stored in this Azure file share. This section is only relevant to these hosting plans.
Using Azure Files requires the use of a connection string, which is stored in your app settings asWEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRING. Azure Files doesn't currently support identity-based connections. If your scenario requires you to not store any secrets in app settings, you must remove your app's dependency on Azure Files. You can do this by creating your app without the default Azure Files dependency.
WEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRING
Note
You should also consider running in your function app in the Flex Consumption plan, which provides greater control over the deployment package, including the ability use managed identity connections. For more information, seeConfigure deployment settingsin the Flex Consumption article.
To run your app without the Azure file share, you must meet the following requirements:
You mustdeploy your package to a remote Azure Blob storage containerand then set the URL that provides access to that package as theWEBSITE_RUN_FROM_PACKAGEapp setting. This option lets you store your app content in Blob storage instead of Azure Files, which does supportmanaged identities.
WEBSITE_RUN_FROM_PACKAGE
You are responsible for manually updating the deployment package and maintaining the deployment package URL, which likely contains a shared access signature (SAS).
Your app can't rely on a shared writeable file system.
The app can't use version 1.x of the Functions runtime.
Log streaming experiences in clients such as the Azure portal default to file system logs. You should instead rely on Application Insights logs.
If the above requirements suit your scenario, you can proceed to create a function app without Azure Files. You can do this by creating an app without theWEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRINGandWEBSITE_CONTENTSHAREapp settings. To get started, generate an ARM template for a standard deployment, remove the two settings, and then deploy the modified template.
WEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRING
WEBSITE_CONTENTSHARE
Since Azure Files is used to enable dynamic scale-out for Functions, scaling could be limited when running your app without Azure Files in the Elastic Premium plan and Consumption plans running on Windows.
Mount file shares
This functionality is current only available when running on Linux.
You can mount existing Azure Files shares to your Linux function apps. By mounting a share to your Linux function app, you can use existing machine learning models or other data in your functions. You can use the following command to mount an existing share to your Linux function app.
Azure CLI
Azure PowerShell
az webapp config storage-account add
az webapp config storage-account add
In this command,share-nameis the name of the existing Azure Files share, andcustom-idcan be any string that uniquely defines the share when mounted to the function app. Also,mount-pathis the path from which the share is accessed in your function app.mount-pathmust be in the format/dir-name, and it can't start with/home.
share-name
custom-id
mount-path
mount-path
/dir-name
/home
For a complete example, see the scripts inCreate a Python function app and mount an Azure Files share.
New-AzWebAppAzureStoragePath
New-AzWebAppAzureStoragePath
In this command,-ShareNameis the name of the existing Azure Files share, and-MountPathis the path from which the share is accessed in your function app.-MountPathmust be in the format/dir-name, and it can't start with/home. After you create the path, use the-AzureStoragePathparameter ofSet-AzWebAppto add the share to the app.
-ShareName
-MountPath
-MountPath
/dir-name
/home
-AzureStoragePath
Set-AzWebApp
For a complete example, see the script inCreate a serverless Python function app and mount file share.
Currently, only astorage-typeofAzureFilesis supported. You can only mount five shares to a given function app. Mounting a file share can increase the cold start time by at least 200-300 ms, or even more when the storage account is in a different region.
storage-type
AzureFiles
The mounted share is available to your function code at themount-pathspecified. For example, whenmount-pathis/path/to/mount, you can access the target directory by file system APIs, as in the following Python example:
mount-path
mount-path
/path/to/mount
import os
...

files_in_share = os.listdir("/path/to/mount")
import os
...

files_in_share = os.listdir("/path/to/mount")
Next steps
Learn more about Azure Functions hosting options.
Azure Functions scale and hosting
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources