Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Virtual machines in Azure
Article
2024-08-22
10 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets
Azure virtual machines (VMs) are one of several types ofon-demand, scalable computing resourcesthat Azure offers. Typically, you choose a virtual machine when you need more control over the computing environment than the other choices offer. This article gives you information about what you should consider before you create a virtual machine, how you create it, and how you manage it.
An Azure virtual machine gives you the flexibility of virtualization without having to buy and maintain the physical hardware that runs it. However, you still need to maintain the virtual machine by performing tasks, such as configuring, patching, and installing the software that runs on it.
Azure virtual machines can be used in various ways. Some examples are:
Development and test– Azure virtual machines offer a quick and easy way to create a computer with specific configurations required to code and test an application.
Applications in the cloud– Because demand for your application can fluctuate, it might make economic sense to run it on a virtual machine in Azure. You pay for extra virtual machines when you need them and shut them down when you don’t.
Extended datacenter– virtual machines in an Azure virtual network can easily be connected to your organization’s network.
The number of virtual machines that your application uses can scale up and out to whatever is required to meet your needs.
What do I need to think about before creating a virtual machine?
There's always a multitude ofdesign considerationswhen you build out an application infrastructure in Azure. These aspects of a virtual machine are important to think about before you start:
The names of your resources
The location where the resources are stored
The size of the virtual machine
The maximum number of virtual machines that can be created
The operating system that the virtual machine runs
The configuration of the virtual machine after it starts
The related resources that the virtual machine needs
Parts of a VM and how they're billed
When you create a virtual machine, you're also creating resources that support the virtual machine. These resources come with their own costs that should be considered.
The default resources supporting a virtual machine and how they're billed are detailed in the following table:
You can also choose to have Azure can create and store public and private SSH keys - Azure uses the public key in your VM and you use the private key when you access the VM over SSH. Otherwise, you need a username and password.
By default, these resources are created in the same resource group as the VM.
Locations
There are multiplegeographical regionsaround the world where you can create Azure resources. Usually, the region is calledlocationwhen you create a virtual machine. For a virtual machine, the location specifies where the virtual hard disks are stored.
This table shows some of the ways you can get a list of available locations.
Availability
There are multiple options to manage the availability of your virtual machines in Azure.
Availability Zonesare physically separated zones within an Azure region. Availability zones guarantee virtual machine connectivity to at least one instance at least 99.99% of the time when you have two or more instances deployed across two or more Availability Zones in the same Azure region.
Virtual Machine Scale Setslet you create and manage a group of load balanced virtual machines. The number of virtual machine instances can automatically increase or decrease in response to demand or a defined schedule. Scale sets provide high availability to your applications, and allow you to centrally manage, configure, and update many virtual machines. Virtual machines in a scale set can also be deployed into multiple availability zones, a single availability zone, or regionally.
Fore more information seeAvailability options for Azure virtual machinesandSLA for Azure virtual machines.
Sizes and pricing
Thesizeof the virtual machine that you use is determined by the workload that you want to run. The size that you choose then determines factors such as processing power, memory, storage capacity, and network bandwidth. Azure offers a wide variety of sizes to support many types of uses.
Azure charges anhourly pricebased on the virtual machine’s size and operating system. For partial hours, Azure charges only for the minutes used. Storage is priced and charged separately.
Virtual machine total core limits
Your subscription has defaultquota limitsin place that could impact the deployment of many virtual machines for your project. The current limit on a per subscription basis is 20 virtual machine total cores per region. Limits can be raised byfiling a support ticket requesting an increase
Managed Disks
Managed Disks handles Azure Storage account creation and management in the background for you, and ensures that you don't have to worry about the scalability limits of the storage account. You specify the disk size and the performance tier (Standard or Premium), and Azure creates and manages the disk. As you add disks or scale the virtual machine up and down, you don't have to worry about the storage being used. If you're creating new virtual machines,use the Azure CLIor the Azure portal to create virtual machines with Managed OS and data disks. If you have virtual machines with unmanaged disks, you canconvert your virtual machines to be backed with Managed Disks.
You can also manage your custom images in one storage account per Azure region, and use them to create hundreds of virtual machines in the same subscription. For more information about Managed Disks, see theManaged Disks Overview.
Distributions
Microsoft Azure supports various Linux and Windows distributions. You can find available distributions in themarketplace, Azure portal or by querying results using CLI, PowerShell, and REST APIs.
This table shows some ways that you can find the information for an image.
Microsoft works closely with partners to ensure the images available are updated and optimized for an Azure runtime. For more information on Azure partner offers, see theAzure Marketplace
Cloud-init
Azure supports forcloud-initacross most Linux distributions that support it. We're actively working with our Linux partners to make cloud-init enabled images available in the Azure Marketplace. These images make your cloud-init deployments and configurations work seamlessly with virtual machines and virtual machine scale sets.
For more information, seeUsing cloud-init on Azure Linux virtual machines.
Storage
Introduction to Microsoft Azure Storage
Add a disk to a Linux virtual machine using the azure-cli
How to attach a data disk to a Linux virtual machine in the Azure portal
Networking
Virtual Network Overview
IP addresses in Azure
Opening ports to a Linux virtual machine in Azure
Create a Fully Qualified Domain Name in the Azure portal
Service disruptions
At Microsoft, we work hard to make sure that our services are always available to you when you need them. Forces beyond our control sometimes impact us in ways that cause unplanned service disruptions.
Microsoft provides a Service Level Agreement (SLA) for its services as a commitment for uptime and connectivity. The SLA for individual Azure services can be found atAzure Service Level Agreements.
Azure already has many built-in platform features that support highly available applications. For more about these services, readDisaster recovery and high availability for Azure applications.
This article covers a true disaster recovery scenario, when a whole region experiences an outage due to major natural disaster or widespread service interruption. These are rare occurrences, but you must prepare for the possibility that there's an outage of an entire region. If an entire region experiences a service disruption, the locally redundant copies of your data would temporarily be unavailable. If you enabled geo-replication, three additional copies of your Azure Storage blobs and tables are stored in a different region. In the event of a complete regional outage or a disaster in which the primary region isn't recoverable, Azure remaps all of the DNS entries to the geo-replicated region.
In the case of a service disruption of the entire region where your Azure virtual machine application is deployed, we provide the following guidance for Azure virtual machines.
Option 1: Initiate a failover by using Azure Site Recovery
You can configure Azure Site Recovery for your VMs so that you can recover your application with a single click in matter of minutes. You can replicate to Azure region of your choice and not restricted to paired regions. You can get started byreplicating your virtual machines. You cancreate a recovery planso that you can automate the entire failover process for your application. You cantest your failoversbeforehand without impacting production application or the ongoing replication. In the event of a primary region disruption, you justinitiate a failoverand bring your application in target region.
Option 2: Wait for recovery
In this case, no action on your part is required. Know that we're working diligently to restore service availability. You can see the current service status on ourAzure Service Health Dashboard.
This option is the best if you don't set up Azure Site Recovery, read-access geo-redundant storage, or geo-redundant storage prior to the disruption. If you set up geo-redundant storage or read-access geo-redundant storage for the storage account where your VM virtual hard drives (VHDs) are stored, you can look to recover the base image VHD and try to provision a new VM from it. This option isn't preferred because there are no guarantees of synchronization of data, which means this option isn't guaranteed to work.
Note
Be aware that you don't have any control over this process, and it will only occur for region-wide service disruptions. Because of this, you must also rely on other application-specific backup strategies to achieve the highest level of availability. For more information, see the section onData strategies for disaster recovery.
Resources for service disruptions
Startprotecting your applications running on Azure virtual machinesusing Azure Site Recovery
Startprotecting your applications running on Azure virtual machinesusing Azure Site Recovery
To learn more about how to implement a disaster recovery and high availability strategy, seeDisaster recovery and high availability for Azure applications.
To learn more about how to implement a disaster recovery and high availability strategy, seeDisaster recovery and high availability for Azure applications.
To develop a detailed technical understanding of a cloud platform’s capabilities, seeAzure resiliency technical guidance.
To develop a detailed technical understanding of a cloud platform’s capabilities, seeAzure resiliency technical guidance.
If the instructions aren't clear, or if you would like Microsoft to do the operations on your behalf, contactCustomer Support.
If the instructions aren't clear, or if you would like Microsoft to do the operations on your behalf, contactCustomer Support.
Data residency
In Azure, the feature to enable storing customer data in a single region is currently only available in the Southeast Asia Region (Singapore) of the Asia Pacific Geo and Brazil South (Sao Paulo State) Region of Brazil Geo. For all other regions, customer data is stored in Geo. For more information, seeTrust Center.
Next steps
Create your first virtual machine!
Portal
Azure CLI
PowerShell
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources