Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Manage users, service principals, and groups
Article
2025-02-05
2 contributors
In this article
This article introduces the Azure Databricks identity management model and provides an overview of how to manage users, groups, and service principals in Azure Databricks.
For an opinionated perspective on how to best configure identity in Azure Databricks, seeIdentity best practices.
To manage access for users, service principals, and groups, seeAuthentication and access control.
Azure Databricks identities
There are three types of Azure Databricks identity:
Users: User identities recognized by Azure Databricks and represented by email addresses.
Service principals: Identities for use with jobs, automated tools, and systems such as scripts, apps, and CI/CD platforms.
Groups: A collection of identities used by admins to manage group access to workspaces, data, and other securable objects. All Databricks identities can be assigned as members of groups.
There are two types of groups in Azure Databricks: account groups and workspace-local groups. For more information, seeTypes of groups in Azure Databricks.
A Azure Databricks account can have a maximum of 10,000 combined users and service principals, along with up to 5,000 groups.
Each workspace also can have a maximum of 10,000 combined users and service principals as members, along with up to 5,000 groups.
For detailed instructions, see:
Manage users
Service principals
Manage groups
Sync users and groups from Microsoft Entra ID using SCIM
Who can manage identities in Azure Databricks?
To manage identities in Azure Databricks, you must have one of the following: the account admin role, the workspace admin role, or the manager role on a service principal or group.
Account adminscan add users, service principals, and groups to the account and assign them admin roles. Account admins can update and delete users, service principals, and groups in the account. They can give users access to workspaces, as long as those workspaces useidentity federation.To establish your first account admin, seeEstablish your first account admin
Account adminscan add users, service principals, and groups to the account and assign them admin roles. Account admins can update and delete users, service principals, and groups in the account. They can give users access to workspaces, as long as those workspaces useidentity federation.
To establish your first account admin, seeEstablish your first account admin
Workspace adminscan add users and service principals to the Azure Databricks account. They can also add groups to the Azure Databricks account if their workspaces are enabled for identity federation. Workspace admins can grant users, service principals, and groups access to their workspaces. They cannot delete users and service principals from the account.Workspace admins can also manage workspace-local groups. For more information, seeManage workspace-local groups (legacy).
Workspace adminscan add users and service principals to the Azure Databricks account. They can also add groups to the Azure Databricks account if their workspaces are enabled for identity federation. Workspace admins can grant users, service principals, and groups access to their workspaces. They cannot delete users and service principals from the account.
Workspace admins can also manage workspace-local groups. For more information, seeManage workspace-local groups (legacy).
Group managerscan manage group membership and delete the group. They can also assign other users the group manager role. Account admins have the group manager role on all groups in the account. Workspace admins have the group manager role on account groups that they create. SeeWho can manage account groups?.
Group managerscan manage group membership and delete the group. They can also assign other users the group manager role. Account admins have the group manager role on all groups in the account. Workspace admins have the group manager role on account groups that they create. SeeWho can manage account groups?.
Service principal managerscan manage roles on a service principal. Account admins have the service principal manager role on all service principals in the account. Workspace admins have the service principal manager role on service principals that they create. For more information, seeRoles for managing service principals.
Service principal managerscan manage roles on a service principal. Account admins have the service principal manager role on all service principals in the account. Workspace admins have the service principal manager role on service principals that they create. For more information, seeRoles for managing service principals.
Assign users to Azure Databricks
Databricks recommends syncing users, service principals, and groups from Microsoft Entra ID to Azure Databricks using automatic identity management (Public Preview).
Using automatic identity management, you can add users, service principals, and groups from Microsoft Entra ID into Azure Databricks without configuring an application in Microsoft Entra ID. When enabled, you can directly search in identity federated workspaces for Microsoft Entra ID users, service principals, and groups add them to your workspace and to the Azure Databricks account. Databricks uses Microsoft Entra ID as the source of record, so any changes to users or group memberships are respected in Azure Databricks. For detailed instructions, seeSync users and groups automatically from Microsoft Entra ID.
Users can share published dashboards with other users in the Azure Databricks account, even if those users are not members of their workspace. Using automatic identity management, users can share dashboards with any user in Microsoft Entra ID, which adds the user to the Azure Databricks account upon login. Users in the Azure Databricks account who are not members of any workspace are the equivalent of view-only users in other tools. They can view objects that have been shared with them, but they cannot modify objects. Users in a Azure Databricks account do not have any default access to a workspace, data, or compute resources. For more information, seeUser and group management for dashboard sharing.
Assign users to workspaces
To enable a user, service principal, or group to work in an Azure Databricks workspace, an account admin or workspace admin needs to assign them to a workspace. You can assign workspace access to users, service principals, and groups that exist in the account as long as the workspace is enabled foridentity federation.
Workspace admins can also add a new user, service principal, or account group directly to a workspace. This action automatically adds the chosen user, service principal, or account group to the account and assigns them to that particular workspace.

Note
Workspace admins can also create legacy workspace-local groups in workspaces using the Workspace Groups API. Workspace-local groups are not automatically added to the account. Workspace-local groups cannot be assigned to additional workspaces, or granted access to data in aUnity Catalogmetastore.
For those workspaces that aren’t enabled for identity federation, workspace admins manage their workspace users, service principals, and groups entirely within the scope of the workspace. Users and service principals added to non-identity federated workspaces are automatically added to the account. Groups added to non-identity federated workspaces are legacy workspace-local groups that are not added to the account.
If the workspace user shares a username (email address) with an account user or admin that already exists, those users are merged.
For detailed instructions, see:
Add users to a workspace
Add service principals to a workspace
Add groups to a workspace
Enable identity federation
Databricks began to enable new workspaces for identity federation and Unity Catalog automatically on November 9, 2023, with a rollout proceeding gradually across accounts. If your workspace is enabled for identity federation by default, it cannot be disabled. For more information, seeAutomatic enablement of Unity Catalog.
To enable identity federation in a workspace, an account admin needs to enable the workspace for Unity Catalog by assigning a Unity Catalog metastore. SeeEnable a workspace for Unity Catalog.
When the assignment is complete, identity federation is marked asEnabledon the workspace’s Configuration tab in the account console.
Workspace admins can tell if a workspace has identity federation enabled from the workspace admin settings page. In an identity federated workspace, when you choose to add a user, service principal, or group in workspace admin settings, you have the option to select a user, service principal, or group from your account to add to the workspace.

In a non-identity federated workspace, you do not have the option to add users, service principals, or groups from your account.
Assigning admin roles
Account admins can assign other users as account admins. They can also become Unity Catalog metastore admins by virtue of creating a metastore, and they can transfer the metastore admin role to another user or group.
Both account admins and workspace admins can assign other users as workspace admins. The workspace admin role is determined by membership in the workspaceadminsgroup, which is a default group in Azure Databricks and cannot be deleted.
Account admins can also assign other users as Marketplace admins.
See:
Assign account admin roles to a user
Assign the workspace admin role to a user
Assign a metastore admin
Assign the Marketplace admin role
Assigning entitlements
An entitlement is a property that allows a user, service principal, or group to interact with Azure Databricks in a specified way. Entitlements are assigned to users at the workspace level. For more information, seeManage entitlements.
Setting up single sign-on (SSO)
Single sign-on (SSO) in the form of Microsoft Entra ID-backed login is available in Azure Databricks for all customers by default. You can use Microsoft Entra ID single sign-on for both the account console and workspaces.
SeeSingle sign-on using Microsoft Entra ID.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources