Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints
Article
2025-04-05
77 contributors
In this article
This document lists some of the most common Microsoft Azure limits, which are also sometimes called quotas.
To learn more about Azure pricing, see theAzure pricingoverview and details page.
The Azure pricing page provides details for specific services; for example,Windows Virtual Machines.
You can also use the Azurepricing calculatorto estimate your costs.
SeeWhat is Microsoft Billing?for tips to help manage your costs.
How to manage limits
Note
Some services have adjustable limits.
When the limit can be adjusted, the tables includeDefault limitandMaximum limitheaders. The limit can be raised above the default limit but not above the maximum limit. Some services with adjustable limits use different headers with information about adjusting the limit.
When a service doesn't have adjustable limits, the following tables use the headerLimitwithout any additional information about adjusting the limit. In those cases, the default and the maximum limits are the same.
If you want to raise the limit or quota above the default limit,open an online customer support request at no charge.
The termssoft limitandhard limitare often used informally to describe the current, adjustable limit (soft limit) and the maximum limit (hard limit). If a limit isn't adjustable, there won't be a soft limit but only a hard limit.
Free Azure trial subscriptionsaren't eligible for limit or quota increases. If you have this type of subscription, you can upgrade to aPay-as-you-goone. For more information, seeUpgrade your Azure accountand the overviews forTry Azure for free or pay as you go.
Some limits are managed at a regional level. You decide what your quotas must be for your workload in any one region, and then request that amount for each region into which you want to deploy.
For example, with virtual central processing unit (vCPU) quotas:
To request a quota increase with support for vCPUs, you decide how many vCPUs to use in which regions.
You then request an increase in vCPU quotas for the amounts and regions that you want.
If you need to use 30 vCPUs in West Europe to run your application there, you specifically request 30 vCPUs in West Europe.
Your vCPU quota doesn't increase in any other region; only West Europe has the 30-vCPU quota.
SeeResolve errors for resource quotasfor more information about how to determine quotas for specific regions.
General limits
SeeNaming rules and restrictions for Azure resourcesfor limits on resource names.
SeeUnderstand how Azure Resource Manager throttles requeststo learn about Resource Manager API read and write limits.
Azure management group limits
The following limits apply toAzure management groups.
1The 6 levels don't include the subscription level.
2If you reach the limit of 800 deployments, delete deployments from the history that are no longer needed. To delete management group level deployments, useRemove-AzManagementGroupDeploymentoraz deployment mg delete.
Azure subscription limits
The following limits apply when you use Azure Resource Manager and Azure resource groups.
1You can apply up to 50 tags directly to a subscription. Within the subscription, each resource or resource group is also limited to 50 tags. However, the subscription can contain an unlimited number of tags that are dispersed across resources and resource groups.
2Resource Manager returns alist of tag name and valuesin the subscription only when the number of unique tags is 80,000 or less. A unique tag is defined by the combination of resource ID, tag name, and tag value. For example, two resources with the same tag name and value would be calculated as two unique tags. You still can find a resource by tag when the number exceeds 80,000.
3Deployments are automatically deleted from the history as you near the limit. For more information, seeAutomatic deletions from deployment history.
Azure resource group limits
1Deployments are automatically deleted from the history as you near the limit. Deleting an entry from the deployment history doesn't affect the deployed resources. For more information, seeAutomatic deletions from deployment history.
You can exceed some template limits by using a nested template. For more information, seeUse linked templates when you deploy Azure resources. To reduce the number of parameters, variables, or outputs, you can combine several values into an object. For more information, seeObjects as parameters.
You may get an error with a template or parameter file of less than 4 MB, if the total size of the request is too large. For more information about how to simplify your template to avoid a large request, seeResolve errors for job size exceeded.
Azure API Center limits
1Free plan provided for 90 days, then service is soft-deleted. Use of full service features including API analysis is limited.2To increase a limit in the Standard plan, contactsupport.3Custom metadata properties assigned to APIs, deployments, and environments.4Process can take a few minutes to up to 24 hours to complete.5Sources such as linked API Management instances.
Azure API Management limits
This section provides information about limits that apply to Azure API Management instances in differentservice tiers, including the following:
API Management classic tiers
API Management v2 tiers
API Management workspaces
Developer portal in API Management v2 tiers
Limits - API Management classic tiers
For certain API Management resources, limits are set only in the Consumption tier; in other API Management classic tiers, where indicated, these resources are unlimited. However, your practical upper limit depends on service configuration including pricing tier, service capacity, number of scale units, policy configuration, API definitions and types, number of concurrent requests, and other factors.
To request a limit increase, create a support request from the Azure portal. For more information, seeAzure support plans.
1Connections are pooled and reused unless explicitly closed by the backend.2Includes an up to 2048-bytes long query string.3The number of nodes (or replicas) associated with a self-hosted gateway resource is unlimited in the Premium tier and capped at a single node in the Developer tier.4Up to a maximum of 60,000 connections per service instance.
Limits - API Management v2 tiers
To request a limit increase, create a support request from the Azure portal. For more information, seeAzure support plans.
1Connections are pooled and reused unless explicitly closed by the backend.2Includes an up to 2048-bytes long query string.3Up to a maximum of 60,000 connections per service instance.
Limits - API Management workspaces
The following are resource limits perworkspacein Azure API Management:
Limits - Developer portal in API Management v2 tiers
1Limit for built-in widgets such as text, images, or APIs list. Currently, custom widgets and custom HTML code widgets aren't supported in the v2 tiers.
Azure App Service limits


1Apps and storage quotas are per App Service plan unless noted otherwise.
2The actual number of apps that you can host on these machines depends on the activity of the apps, the size of the machine instances, and the corresponding resource utilization.
3Dedicated instances can be of different sizes. For more information, seeApp Service pricing.
4More are allowed upon request.
5The storage limit is the total content size across all apps in the same App service plan. The total content size of all apps across all App service plans in a single resource group and region cannot exceed 500 GB. The file system quota for App Service hosted apps is determined by the aggregate of App Service plans created in a region and resource group.
6These resources are constrained by physical resources on the dedicated instances (the instance size and the number of instances).
7If you scale a Windows app in the Basic tier to two instances, you have 350 concurrent connections for each of the two instances. For Windows apps on Standard tier and above, there are no theoretical limits to WebSockets, but other factors can limit the number of WebSockets. For example, maximum concurrent requests allowed (defined bymaxConcurrentRequestsPerCpu) are: 7,500 per small VM, 15,000 per medium VM (7,500 x 2 cores), and 75,000 per large VM (18,750 x 4 cores). Linux apps are limited 5 concurrent WebSocket connections on Free SKU and ~50k concurrent WebSocket connections per instance on all other SKUs.
maxConcurrentRequestsPerCpu
8The maximum IP connections are per instance and depend on the instance size: 1,920 per B1/S1/P0V3/P1V3 instance, 3,968 per B2/S2/P2V3 instance, 8,064 per B3/S3/P3V3 instance.
9App Service Isolated SKUs can be internally load balanced (ILB) with Azure Load Balancer, so there's no public connectivity from the internet. As a result, some features of an ILB Isolated App Service must be used from machines that have direct access to the ILB network endpoint.
10Run custom executables and/or scripts on demand, on a schedule, or continuously as a background task within your App Service instance. Always On is required for continuous WebJobs execution. There's no predefined limit on the number of WebJobs that can run in an App Service instance. There are practical limits that depend on what the application code is trying to do.
11Only issuing standard certificates (wildcard certificates aren't available). Limited to only one free certificate per custom domain.
12Total storage usage across all apps deployed in a single App Service environment (regardless of how they're allocated across different resource groups).
Azure Automation limits
1A sandbox is a shared environment that can be used by multiple jobs. Jobs that use the same sandbox are bound by the resource limitations of the sandbox.2Free subscriptions includingAzure Free AccountandAzure for Studentsaren't eligible for limit or quota changes. If you have a free subscription, you canupgradeto pay-as-you-go subscription.3Limits for Government clouds: 200 concurrent running jobs at the same instance of time per Automation account, no limit on number of Automation accounts per subscription.
The following table shows the tracked item limits per machine for change tracking.
The following are the Dynamic scope recommended limits foreach dynamic scope:
The following are the limits for schedule patching:
Azure App Configuration
Azure Cache for Redis limits
Azure Cache for Redis limits and sizes are different for each pricing tier. To see the pricing tiers and their associated sizes, seeAzure Cache for Redis pricing.
For more information on Azure Cache for Redis configuration limits, seeDefault Redis server configuration.
Because configuration and management of Azure Cache for Redis instances is done by Microsoft, not all Redis commands are supported in Azure Cache for Redis. For more information, seeRedis commands not supported in Azure Cache for Redis.
Azure Cloud Services limits
1Each Azure Cloud Service with web or worker roles can have two deployments, one for production and one for staging. This limit refers to the number of distinct roles, that is, configuration. This limit doesn't refer to the number of instances per role, that is, scaling.
Azure AI Search limits
Pricing tiers determine the capacity and limits of your search service. These tiers include:
Free: Multitenant service that's shared with other Azure subscribers and helps with evaluations and small development projects
Basic: Provides dedicated computing resources for production workloads at a smaller scale and with up to three replicas for highly available query workloads
Standard: Includes S1, S2, S3, and S3 High Density; is for larger production workloads; multiple levels exist within the Standard tier for you to choose a resource configuration that best matches your workload profile
Limits per subscription
You can create multiplebillablesearch services (Basic and higher), up to the maximum number of services allowed at each tier, per region. For example, you could create up to 16 services at the Basic tier and another 16 services at the S1 tier within the same subscription and region. You could then create an additional 16 Basic services in another region for a combined total of 32 Basic services under the same subscription. For more information about tiers, seeChoose a tier (or SKU) for Azure AI Search.
Maximum service limits can be raised upon request. If you need more services within the same subscription,file a support request.
1You can have one free search service per Azure subscription. The free tier is based on infrastructure shared with other customers. Because the hardware isn't dedicated, scale-up isn't supported, and storage is limited to 50 MB. A free search service might be deleted after extended periods of inactivity to make room for more services.
2Search units (SU) are billing units, allocated as either areplicaor apartition. You need both. To learn more about SU combinations, seeEstimate and manage capacity of a search service.
Limits per search service
The following table covers SLA, partition counts, and replica counts at the service level.
1Basic tier supports three partitions and three replicas, for a total of nine search units (SU) onnew search servicescreated after April 3, 2024. Older basic services are limited to one partition and three replicas.
A search service is subject to a maximum storage limit (partition size multiplied by the number of partitions) or by a hard limit on themaximum number of indexesorindexers, whichever comes first.
Service-level agreements (SLAs) apply to billable services that have two or more replicas for query workloads, or three or more replicas for query and indexing workloads. The number of partitions isn't an SLA consideration. For more information, seeReliability in Azure AI Search.
Free services don't have fixed partitions or replicas and share resources with other subscribers.
Partition storage (GB)
Per-service storage limits vary by two things:service creation dateandregion. There are higher limits fornewer servicesin most supported regions.
This table shows the progression of storage quota increases in GB over time. Starting in April 2024, higher capacity partitions were brought online in the regions listed in the footnotes. If you have an older service in a supported region, check if you canupgrade your serviceto the higher storage limits.
1Higher capacity storage for Basic, S1, S2, S3 in these regions.Americas: Brazil South​, Canada Central​, Canada East​​, East US​, East US 2, ​Central US​, North Central US​, South Central US​, West US​, West US 2​, West US 3​, West Central US.Europe: France Central​. Italy North​​, North Europe​​, Norway East, Poland Central​​, Switzerland North​, Sweden Central​, UK South​, UK West​.Middle East:  UAE North.Africa: South Africa North.Asia Pacific: Australia East​, Australia Southeast​​, Central India, Jio India West​, East Asia, Southeast Asia​, Japan East, Japan West​, Korea Central, Korea South​.
2Higher capacity storage for L1 and L2. More regions provide higher capacity at every billable tier.Europe: Germany North​, Germany West Central, Switzerland West​.Azure Government: Texas, Arizona, Virginia.Africa: South Africa North​.Asia Pacific: China North 3, China East 3.
3Higher capacity storage is available in West Europe.
Important
Currently, higher storage limits aren't available in the following regions, which are subject to the pre-April 3 limits.
Israel Central
Qatar Central
⁠Spain Central
South India
SeeService limits in Azure AI Searchfor more details about limits, including document size, queries per second, keys, requests, and responses.

Azure AI Services limits
The following limits are for the number of Azure AI services resources per Azure subscription.
There is a limit of only one allowed 'Free' account, per resource type, per subscription.
Each of the Azure AI services may have other limitations, for more information, seeAzure AI services.
Azure Chaos Studio limits
SeeAzure Chaos Studio service limitsfor Azure Chaos Studio limits.
Azure Communications Gateway limits
Some of the following default limits and quotas can be increased. To request a change, create anAzure portal support request, and describe the limit that you need to change.
The following restrictions apply to all Azure Communications Gateways:
All traffic must use IPv4.
All traffic must use TLS 1.2 or greater. Earlier versions aren't supported.
The number of active calls is limited to 15% of the number of users assigned to Azure Communications Gateway. For the definition of users, seePlan and manage costs for Azure Communications Gateway.
The number of calls being actively transcoded is limited to 5% of the total number of active calls.
Azure Communications Gateway also has limits on SIP signaling.
Some endpoints might add parameters in the following headers to an in-dialog message when those parameters weren't present in the dialog-creating message. In that case, Azure Communications Gateway strips the parameters, because RFC 3261 doesn't permit this behavior.
Request URI
To header
From header
The Provisioning API has a rate limit of 100 requests per minute, applied across all the resources. A batch request to update multiple resources counts as one request.
Azure Container Apps limits
SeeQuotas in Azure Container Appsfor Azure Container Apps limits.
The amount of disk space available to your application varies based on the associated workload profile. Available disk space determines the image size limit you can deploy to your container apps.
For dedicated workload profiles, the image size limit is per instance.
* The image size limit for a consumption workload profile is a shared among both image and app. For example, logs used by your app are subject to this size limit.
Azure Cosmos DB limits
SeeLimits in Azure Cosmos DBfor Azure Cosmos DB limits.
Azure Data Explorer limits
The following table describes the maximum limits for Azure Data Explorer clusters.
Note
You can request higher limits forNumber of databases in a clusterandClusters per region per subscription. To request an increase, contactAzure Support.
The following table describes the limits on management operations performed on Azure Data Explorer clusters.
Azure Database for MySQL
SeeLimitations in Azure Database for MySQLfor Azure Database for MySQL limits.
Azure Database for PostgreSQL
SeeLimitations in Azure Database for PostgreSQLfor Azure Database for PostgreSQL limits.
Azure Deployment Environments limits
Azure Files and Azure File Sync
SeeScalability and performance targets for Azure Files and Azure File Syncto learn more about the limits for Azure Files and Azure File Sync.
Azure Functions limits
Notes on service limits:
By default, the time-out for the Functions 1.x runtime in an App Service plan is unbounded.
Requires the App Service plan be set toAlways On. Pay at standardrates. A grace period of 10 minutes is given during platform updates.
These limits areset in the host.
The actual number of function apps that you can host depends on the activity of the apps, the size of the machine instances, and the corresponding resource utilization.
The storage limit is the total content size in temporary storage across all apps in the same App Service plan. For Consumption plans on Linux, the storage is currently 1.5 GB.
Consumption plan uses an Azure Files share for persisted storage. When you provide your own Azure Files share, the specific share size limits depend on the storage account you set forWEBSITE_CONTENTAZUREFILECONNECTIONSTRING.
On Linux, you mustexplicitly mount your own Azure Files share.
When your function app is hosted in aConsumption plan, only the CNAME option is supported. For function apps in aPremium planor anApp Service plan, you can map a custom domain using either a CNAME or an A record.
There's no maximum execution time-out duration enforced. However, the grace period given to a function execution is 60 minutesduring scale inand 10 minutes during platform updates.
Workers are roles that host customer apps. Workers are available in three fixed sizes: One vCPU/3.5 GB RAM; Two vCPU/7 GB RAM; Four vCPU/14 GB RAM.
SeeApp Service limitsfor details.
Including the production slot.
There's currently a limit of 5,000 function apps in a given subscription.
Flex Consumption plan instance sizes are currently defined as either 2,048 MB or 4,096 MB. For more information, seeInstance memory.
Flex Consumption plan has a regional subscription quota that limits the total memory usage of all instances across a given region. For more information, seeRegional subscription memory quotas. Container Apps has Environments and cores quotas per subscription. SeeQuotas for Azure Container Apps.
When theminimum number of replicasis set to zero, the default time-out depends on the specific triggers used in the app.
When theminimum number of replicasis set to one or more.
On Container Apps, you can set themaximum number of replicas, which is honored as long as there's enough cores quota available.
SeeAzure Functions hosting optionsfor more information.
Azure Health Data Services
Azure Health Data Services limits
Health Data Services is a set of managed API services based on open standards and frameworks. Health Data Services enables workflows to improve healthcare and offers scalable and secure healthcare solutions. Health Data Services includes Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) service, the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) service, and MedTech service.
FHIR service is an implementation of the FHIR specification within Health Data Services. It enables you to combine in a single workspace one or more FHIR service instances with optional DICOM and MedTech service instances. Azure API for FHIR is generally available as a stand-alone service offering.
Each FHIR service instance in Azure Health Data Services has a storage limit of 4 TB by default. If you have more data, you can ask Microsoft to increase storage up to 100 TB for your FHIR service. To request storage greater than 4 TB,create a support requeston the Azure portal and use the issue type Service and Subscription limit (quotas).
Azure API for FHIR service limits
Azure API for FHIR is a managed, standards-based, compliant API for clinical health data that enables solutions for actionable analytics and machine learning.
Azure Kubernetes Service limits
1To request an increase of the quota limit,create a support request. Free Trial and Azure for Students subscriptions are not eligible for limit or quota increases. If you have a Free Trial or Azure for Students subscription, you can upgrade to a pay-as-you-go subscription.2Windows Server containers must use Azure CNI networking plug-in. Kubenet isn't supported for Windows Server containers.
Azure Lab Services
The following limits are for the number of Azure Lab Services resources.
For more information about Azure Lab Services capacity limits, seeCapacity limits in Azure Lab Services.
Contact support to request an increase your limit.
Azure Load Testing limits
SeeService limits in Azure Load Testingfor Azure Load Testing limits.
Azure Machine Learning limits
SeeManage and increase quotas and limits for resources with Azure Machine Learningfor the latest values for Azure Machine Learning Compute quotas.
Azure Maps limits
Note
Azure Maps Gen1 Price Tier Retirement
Gen1 pricing tier is now deprecated and will be retired on 9/15/26. Gen2 pricing tier replaces Gen1 (both S0 and S1) pricing tier. If your Azure Maps account has Gen1 pricing tier selected, you can switch to Gen2 pricing before it's retired, otherwise it will automatically be updated. For more information, seeManage the pricing tier of your Azure Maps account.
For Azure Maps queries per second limits, seeAzure Maps QPS rate limits
The following table shows the cumulative data size limit for Azure Maps accounts in an Azure subscription. The Azure Maps Data service is available only at the Gen1 (S1) and Gen2 pricing tier.
Note
Azure Maps Data service Retirement
The Azure Maps Data service (both [v1] and [v2]) is now deprecated and will be retired on 9/16/24. The Azure MapsData Registryservice is replacing the Data service. For more information, seeHow to create data registry
Azure Managed Grafana limits
Azure Monitor limits
For Azure Monitor limits, seeAzure Monitor service limits.
Azure Data Factory limits
Azure Data Factory is a multitenant service that has the following default limits in place to make sure customer subscriptions are protected from each other's workloads. To raise the limits up to the maximum for your subscription, contact support.
1The data integration unit (DIU) is used in a cloud-to-cloud copy operation. Learn more fromData integration units (version 2). For information on billing, seeAzure Data Factory pricing.
2Azure Integration Runtimeisglobally availableto ensure data compliance, efficiency, and reduced network egress costs.
If managed virtual network is enabled, the data integration unit (DIU) in all region groups are 2,400.
3Pipeline, data set, and linked service objects represent a logical grouping of your workload. Limits for these objects don't relate to the amount of data you can move and process with Azure Data Factory. Data Factory is designed to scale to handle petabytes of data.
4The payload for each activity run includes the activity configuration, one or more associated datasets, and linked service configurations if any, and a small portion of system properties generated per activity type. Limit for this payload size doesn't relate to the amount of data you can move and process with Azure Data Factory. Learn about thesymptoms and recommendationif you hit this limit.
Azure Resource Manager has limits for API calls. You can make API calls at a rate within theAzure Resource Manager API limits.
Azure NetApp Files
Azure NetApp Files has a regional limit for capacity. The standard capacity limit for each subscription is 25 TiB, per region, across all service levels. To increase the capacity, use theService and subscription limits (quotas)support request.
To learn more about the limits for Azure NetApp Files, seeResource limits for Azure NetApp Files.
Azure Policy limits
There's a maximum count for each object type for Azure Policy. For definitions, an entry ofScopemeans themanagement groupor subscription. For assignments and exemptions, an entry ofScopemeans the management group, subscription, resource group, or individual resource.
Policy rules have more limits to the number of conditions and their complexity. For more information, seePolicy rule limits.
Azure Quantum limits
Provider Limits & Quota
The Azure Quantum Service supports both first and third-party service providers.
Third-party providers own their limits and quotas. Users can view offers and limits in the Azure portal when configuring third-party providers.
You can find the published quota limits for Microsoft's first party Optimization Solutions provider below.
While on the Learn & Develop SKU, youcannotrequest an increase on your quota limits. Instead you should switch to the Performance at Scale SKU.
Reach out to Azure Support to request a limit increase.
For more information, please review theAzure Quantum pricing page.
Review the relevant provider pricing pages in the Azure portal for details on third-party offerings.
1Describes the number of jobs that can be queued at the same time.
Azure RBAC limits
The following limits apply toAzure role-based access control (Azure RBAC).
Azure SignalR Service limits
To request an update to your subscription's default limits, open a support ticket.
For more information about how connections and messages are counted, seeMessages and connections in Azure SignalR Service.
If your requirements exceed the limits, switch from Free tier to Standard tier and add units. For more information, seeHow to scale an Azure SignalR Service instance?.
If your requirements exceed the limits of a single instance, add instances. For more information, seeHow to enable Geo-Replication in Azure SignalR Service.
Azure Spring Apps limits
SeeQuotas and service plans for Azure Spring Appsto learn more about the limits for Azure Spring Apps.
Azure Storage limits
This section lists the following limits for Azure Storage:
Standard storage account limits
Azure Storage resource provider limits
Azure Blob Storage limits
Azure Queue storage limits
Azure Table storage limits
Standard storage account limits
The following table describes default limits for Azure general-purpose v2 (GPv2), general-purpose v1 (GPv1), and Blob storage accounts. Theingresslimit refers to all data that is sent to a storage account. Theegresslimit refers to all data that is received from a storage account.
Microsoft recommends that you use a GPv2 storage account for most scenarios. You can easily upgrade a GPv1 or a Blob storage account to a GPv2 account with no downtime and without the need to copy data. For more information, seeUpgrade to a GPv2 storage account.
Note
You can request higher capacity and ingress limits. To request an increase, contactAzure Support.
East Asia
Southeast Asia
Australia East
Brazil South
Canada Central
China East 2
China North 3
North Europe
West Europe
France Central
Germany West Central
Central India
Japan East
Jio India West
Korea Central
Norway East
South Africa North
Sweden Central
UAE North
UK South
Central US
East US
East US 2
USGov Virginia
USGov Arizona
North Central US
South Central US
West US
West US 2
West US 3
East Asia
Southeast Asia
Australia East
Brazil South
Canada Central
China East 2
China North 3
North Europe
West Europe
France Central
Germany West Central
Central India
Japan East
Jio India West
Korea Central
Norway East
South Africa North
Sweden Central
UAE North
UK South
Central US
East US
East US 2
USGov Virginia
USGov Arizona
North Central US
South Central US
West US
West US 2
West US 3
East Asia
Southeast Asia
Australia East
Brazil South
Canada Central
China East 2
China North 3
North Europe
West Europe
France Central
Germany West Central
Central India
Japan East
Jio India West
Korea Central
Norway East
South Africa North
Sweden Central
UAE North
UK South
Central US
East US
East US 2
USGov Virginia
USGov Arizona
North Central US
South Central US
West US
West US 2
West US 3
1With a quota increase, you can create up to 500 storage accounts with standard endpoints per region. For more information, seeIncrease Azure Storage account quotas.2Azure Storage standard accounts support higher capacity limits and higher limits for ingress and egress by request. To request an increase in account limits, contactAzure Support.
Azure Storage resource provider limits
The following limits apply only when you perform management operations by using Azure Resource Manager with Azure Storage and the Storage Resource Provider. The limits apply per subscription per region of the resource in the request.
Azure Blob Storage limits
1Throughput for a single blob depends on several factors. These factors include but aren't limited to: concurrency, request size, performance tier, speed of source for uploads, and destination for downloads. To take advantage of the performance enhancements ofhigh-throughput block blobs, upload larger blobs or blocks. Specifically, call thePut BloborPut Blockoperation with a blob or block size that is greater than 256 KiB.
2Page blobs aren't yet supported in accounts that have a hierarchical namespace enabled.
The following table describes the maximum block and blob sizes permitted by service version.
Azure Queue storage limits
Azure Table storage limits
The following table describes capacity, scalability, and performance targets for Table storage.
Azure subscription creation limits
SeeBilling accounts and scopes in the Azure portalto learn more about creating limits for Azure subscriptions.
Azure Virtual Desktop Service limits
The following table describes the maximum limits for Azure Virtual Desktop.
1If you require over 500 Application groups then please raise a support ticket via the Azure portal.
All other Azure resources used in Azure Virtual Desktop such as Virtual Machines, Storage, Networking etc. are all subject to their own resource limitations documented in the relevant sections of this article.
To visualise the relationship between all the Azure Virtual Desktop objects, review this articleRelationships between Azure Virtual Desktop logical components.
To get started with Azure Virtual Desktop, use thegetting started guide.
For deeper architectural content for Azure Virtual Desktop, use theAzure Virtual Desktop section of the Cloud Adoption Framework.
For pricing information for Azure Virtual Desktop, add "Azure Virtual Desktop" within the Compute section of theAzure Pricing Calculator.
Azure VMware Solution limits
The following table describes the maximum limits for Azure VMware Solution.
* For information about an RPO lower than 15 minutes, seeHow the 5-minute RPO worksin the vSphere Replication Administration documentation.
** This soft recommended limit can support higher throughput based on the scenario.
For other VMware-specific limits, use theVMware by Broadcom configuration maximum tool.
Azure Web PubSub limits
To request an update to your subscription's default limits, open a support ticket.
For more information about how connections and messages are counted in billing, seeBilling model in Azure Web PubSub Service.
If your requirements exceed the limits, scale up from Free tier to Standard/Premium tier or scale out units. For more information, seeHow to scale an Azure Web PubSub Service instance.
If your requirements exceed the limits of a single instance, add instances. For more information, seeHow to use Geo-Replication in Azure Web PubSub.
Backup limits
For a summary of Azure Backup support settings and limitations, seeAzure Backup Support Matrices.
Batch limits
1For capacity management purposes, the default quotas for new Batch accounts in some regions and for some subscription
types have been reduced from the above range of values. In some cases, these limits have been reduced to zero. When you create a
new Batch account,check your quotasandrequest an appropriate core or service quota increase, if necessary.
Alternatively, consider reusing Batch accounts that already have sufficient quota or user subscription pool allocation
Batch accounts to maintain core and VM family quota across all Batch accounts on the subscription. Service quotas like
active jobs or pools apply to each distinct Batch account even for user subscription pool allocation Batch accounts.
2To request an increase beyond this limit, contact Azure Support.
Note
Default limits vary depending on the type of subscription you use to create a Batch account. Cores quotas shown are for Batch
accounts in Batch service mode.View the quotas in your Batch account.
Classic deployment model limits
The following limits apply if you use a classic deployment model instead of the Azure Resource Manager deployment model.
1Extra small instances count as one vCPU toward the vCPU limit despite using a partial CPU core.
2The storage account limit includes both Standard and Premium storage accounts.
Container Instances limits
1To request a limit increase, create anAzure Support request. Free subscriptions includingAzure Free AccountandAzure for Studentsaren't eligible for limit or quota increases. If you have a free subscription, you canupgradeto a Pay-As-You-Go subscription.2Default limit forPay-As-You-Gosubscription. Limit may differ for other category types.
Azure Container Registry limits
The following table details the features and limits of the Basic, Standard, and PremiumAzure Container Registry service tiers.
1Storage included in the daily rate for each tier. Additional storage may be used, up to the registry storage limit, at an additional daily rate per GiB. For rate information, seeAzure Container Registry pricing. If you need storage beyond the registry storage limit, please contact Azure Support.
2ReadOps,WriteOps, andBandwidthare minimum estimates. Azure Container Registry strives to improve performance as usage requires. Both resources, ACR, and the device must be in the same region to achieve a fast download speed.
3Adocker pulltranslates to multiple read operations based on the number of layers in the image, plus the manifest retrieval.
4Adocker pushtranslates to multiple write operations, based on the number of layers that must be pushed. Adocker pushincludesReadOpsto retrieve a manifest for an existing image.
docker push
5Individualactionsofcontent/delete,content/read,content/write,metadata/read,metadata/writecorresponds to the limit of Repositories per scope map.
content/delete
content/read
content/write
metadata/read
metadata/write
Azure Content Delivery Network limits
*These two limits are only applicable to Azure CDN Standard from Microsoft (classic). If the traffic isn't globally distributed and concentrated in one or two regions, or if a higher quota limit is needed, create anAzure Support request.
A Content Delivery Network subscription can contain one or more Content Delivery Network profiles. A Content Delivery Network profile can contain one or more Content Delivery Network endpoints. You might want to use multiple profiles to organize your Content Delivery Network endpoints by internet domain, web application, or some other criteria.
Azure Data Lake Analytics limits
Azure Data Lake Analytics makes the complex task of managing distributed infrastructure and complex code easy. It dynamically provisions resources, and you can use it to do analytics on exabytes of data. When the job completes, it winds down resources automatically. You pay only for the processing power that was used. As you increase or decrease the size of data stored or the amount of compute used, you don't have to rewrite code. To raise the default limits for your subscription, contact support.
Azure Data Lake Storage limits
Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2is not a dedicated service or storage account type. It is the latest release of capabilities that are dedicated to big data analytics.  These capabilities are available in a general-purpose v2 or BlockBlobStorage storage account, and you can obtain them by enabling theHierarchical namespacefeature of the account. For scale targets, see these articles.
Scale targets for Blob storage.
Scale targets for standard storage accounts.
Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1is a dedicated service. It's an enterprise-wide hyper-scale repository for big data analytic workloads. You can use Data Lake Storage Gen1 to capture data of any size, type, and ingestion speed in one single place for operational and exploratory analytics. There's no limit to the amount of data you can store in a Data Lake Storage Gen1 account.
Azure Data Share limits
Azure Data Share enables organizations to simply and securely share data with their customers and partners.
Azure Database Migration Service Limits
Azure Database Migration Service is a fully managed service designed to enable seamless migrations from multiple database sources to Azure data platforms with minimal downtime.
Azure Device Update for IoT Hub limits
Limits can be adjusted only for the Standard SKU. Limit adjustment requests are evaluated on a case-by-case basis, and approvals aren't guaranteed.
Limit adjustment requests aren't accepted for the Free SKU. Also, Free SKU instances can't be upgraded to Standard SKU instances.
The following table shows the limits for the Device Update for IoT Hub resource in Azure Resource Manager.
The following table shows the limits associated with various Device Update operations.
Note
Canceled or inactive deployments count toward your total deployment limit. Make sure to clean up these deployments periodically so you aren't prevented from creating new deployments.
Azure Digital Twins limits
Note
Some areas of this service have adjustable limits, and others do not. The following tables use theAdjustable?column to represent this condition. When the limit can be adjusted, theAdjustable?value isYes.
Functional limits
The following table lists the functional limits of Azure Digital Twins.
AND
OR
IN
NOT IN
JOINS
Rate limits
The following table lists the rate limits of different APIs.
Other limits
Limits on data types and fields within DTDL documents for Azure Digital Twins models can be found in its spec documentation in GitHub:Digital Twins Definition Language (DTDL) - version 3.
Query latency details are described inQuery language. Limitations of particular query language features can be found in thequery reference documentation.
Azure Event Grid limits
Note
The following limits listed in this article are per region.
Event Grid throttle limits
Event Grid offers a standard tier and basic tier. Event Grid standard tier enables pub-sub using Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) broker functionality and pull-delivery of messages through the Event Grid namespace. Event Grid basic tier enables push delivery using Event Grid custom topics, Event Grid system topics, Event domains, and Event Grid partner topics. SeeChoose the right Event Grid tier. This article describes the quota and limits for both tiers.
Event Grid Namespace resource limits
Azure Event Grid namespacesenables MQTT messaging, and HTTP pull delivery.
The following limits apply to namespace resources in Azure Event Grid.
MQTT limits in Event Grid namespace
The following limits apply to MQTT in Azure Event Grid namespace resource.
Note
Throughput units (TUs) define the ingress and egress event rate capacity in namespaces. They allow you to control the capacity of your namespace resource for message ingress and egress.
* For MQTTv5, learn more aboutflow control support.
Events limits in Event Grid namespace
The following limits apply to events in Azure Event Grid namespace resource.
Custom topic, system topic, and partner topic resource limits
The following limits apply to Azure Event Grid custom topic, system topic, and partner topic resources.
Domain resource limits
The following limits apply to Azure Event Grid domain resource.
Azure Event Hubs limits
The following tables provide quotas and limits specific toAzure Event Hubs. For information about Event Hubs pricing, seeEvent Hubs pricing.
Common limits for all tiers
The following limits are common across all tiers.
Kafka: 256 characters
AMQP: 50 characters
Basic vs. standard vs. premium vs. dedicated tiers
The following table shows limits that are different for Basic, Standard, Premium, and Dedicated tiers.
Note
In the table, CU iscapacity unit, PU isprocessing unit, and TU isthroughput unit.
You can configureTUsfor a Basic or Standard tier namespace orPUsfor a Premium tier namespace.
When youcreate a dedicated cluster, one CU is assigned to the cluster. If you enable theSupport scalingoption while you create the cluster, you can scale out by increasing CUs or scale in by decreasing CUs for the cluster yourself. For step-by-step instructions, seeScale dedicated cluster. For clusters that don't support theSupport scalingfeature,submit a ticketto adjust CUs for the cluster.
* Depends on factors such as resource allocation, number of partitions, and storage.
Note
You can publish events individually or batched. The publication limit (according to SKU) applies regardless of whether it's a single event or a batch. Publishing events larger than the maximum threshold will be rejected.
Azure IoT Central limits
IoT Central limits the number of applications you can deploy in a subscription to 100. To learn more, seeAzure IoT Central quota and limits.
Azure IoT Hub limits
The following table lists the limits associated with the different service tiers S1, S2, S3, and F1. For information about the cost of eachunitin each tier, seeAzure IoT Hub pricing.
The following table lists the limits that apply to IoT Hub resources.
Note
The total number of devices plus modules that can be registered to a single IoT hub is capped at 1,000,000.
IoT Hub throttles requests when the following quotas are exceeded.
Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service limits
The following table lists the limits that apply to Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service resources.
Tip
If the hard limit on symmetric key enrollment groups is a blocking issue, use individual enrollments as a workaround.
The Device Provisioning Service has the following rate limits.
Azure Key Vault limits
Azure Key Vault service supports two resource types: Vaults and Managed HSMs. The following two sections describe the service limits for each of them respectively.
Resource type: vault
This section describes service limits for resource typevaults.
vaults
Note
In the previous table, we see that for RSA 2,048-bit software keys, 4,000 GET transactions per 10 seconds are allowed. For RSA 2,048-bit HSM-keys, 2,000 GET transactions per 10 seconds are allowed.
The throttling thresholds are weighted, and enforcement is on their sum. For example, as shown in the previous table, when you perform GET operations on RSA HSM-keys, it's eight times more expensive to use 4,096-bit keys compared to 2,048-bit keys. That's because 2,000/250 = 8.
In a given 10-second interval, an Azure Key Vault client can doonly oneof the following operations before it encounters a429throttling HTTP status code:
429
4,000 RSA 2,048-bit software-key GET transactions
2,000 RSA 2,048-bit HSM-key GET transactions
250 RSA 4,096-bit HSM-key GET transactions
248 RSA 4,096-bit HSM-key GET transactions and 16 RSA 2,048-bit HSM-key GET transactions
For information on how to handle throttling when these limits are exceeded, seeAzure Key Vault throttling guidance.
1A subscription-wide limit for all transaction types is five times per key vault limit.
When you back up a key vault object, such as a secret, key, or certificate, the backup operation will download the object as an encrypted blob. This blob cannot be decrypted outside of Azure. To get usable data from this blob, you must restore the blob into a key vault within the same Azure subscription and Azure geography
Note
Attempting to backup a key, secret, or certificate object with more versions than above limit will result in an error. It is not possible to delete previous versions of a key, secret, or certificate.
Limits on count of keys, secrets and certificates:
Key Vault does not restrict the number of keys, secrets or certificates that can be stored in a vault. The transaction limits on the vault should be taken into account to ensure that operations are not throttled.
Key Vault does not restrict the number of versions on a secret, key or certificate, but storing a large number of versions (500+) can impact the performance of backup operations. SeeAzure Key Vault Backup.
Resource type: Managed HSM
This section describes service limits for resource typemanaged HSM.
managed HSM
Each Managed HSM instance constitutes three load balanced HSM partitions. The throughput limits are a function of underlying hardware capacity allocated for each partition. The tables below show maximum throughput with at least one partition available. Actual throughput may be up to 3x higher if all three partitions are available.
Throughput limits noted assume that one single key is being used to achieve maximum throughput. For example, if a single RSA-2048 key is used the maximum throughput will be 1100 sign operations. If you use 1100 different keys with one transaction per second each, they will not be able to achieve the same throughput.
This table describes number of operations per second for each curve type.
Encrypt and Decrypt operations assume a 4KB packet size.
Throughput limits for Encrypt/Decrypt apply to AES-CBC and AES-GCM algorithms.
Throughput limits for Wrap/Unwrap apply to AES-KW algorithm.
Azure Managed Identity limits
Each managed identity counts towards the object quota limit in a Microsoft Entra tenant as described inMicrosoft Entra service limits and restrictions.
Each managed identity counts towards the object quota limit in a Microsoft Entra tenant as described inMicrosoft Entra service limits and restrictions.
The rate at which managed identities can be created have the following limits:Per Microsoft Entra tenant per Azure region: 400 create operations per 20 seconds.Per Azure Subscription per Azure region : 80 create operations per 20 seconds.
The rate at which managed identities can be created have the following limits:
Per Microsoft Entra tenant per Azure region: 400 create operations per 20 seconds.
Per Azure Subscription per Azure region : 80 create operations per 20 seconds.
The rate at which a user-assigned managed identity can be assigned with an Azure resource :Per Microsoft Entra tenant per Azure region: 400 assignment operations per 20 seconds.Per Azure Subscription per Azure region : 300 assignment operations per 20 seconds.
The rate at which a user-assigned managed identity can be assigned with an Azure resource :
Per Microsoft Entra tenant per Azure region: 400 assignment operations per 20 seconds.
Per Azure Subscription per Azure region : 300 assignment operations per 20 seconds.
Azure Media Services limits
Note
For resources that aren't fixed, open a support ticket to ask for an increase in the quotas. Don't create additional Azure Media Services accounts in an attempt to obtain higher limits.
Account limits
Asset limits
Storage (media) limits
1The maximum size supported for a single blob is currently up to 5 TB in Azure Blob Storage. Additional limits apply in Media Services based on the VM sizes that are used by the service. The size limit applies to the files that you upload and also the files that get generated as a result of Media Services processing (encoding or analyzing). If your source file is larger than 260-GB, your Job will likely fail.
2The storage accounts must be from the same Azure subscription.
Jobs (encoding & analyzing) limits
3This number includes queued, finished, active, and canceled Jobs. It does not include deleted Jobs.
Any Job record in your account older than 90 days will be automatically deleted, even if the total number of records is below the maximum quota.
Live streaming limits
4For detailed information about Live Event limitations, seeLive Event types comparison and limitations.
5Live Outputs start on creation and stop when deleted.
Packaging & delivery limits
6When using a customStreaming Policy, you should design a limited set of such policies for your Media Service account, and re-use them for your StreamingLocators whenever the same encryption options and protocols are needed. You should not be creating a new Streaming Policy for each Streaming Locator.
7Streaming Locators are not designed for managing per-user access control. To give different access rights to individual users, use Digital Rights Management (DRM) solutions.
Protection limits
Support ticket
For resources that are not fixed, you may ask for the quotas to be raised, by opening asupport ticket. Include detailed information in the request on the desired quota changes, use-case scenarios, and regions required.Donotcreate additional Azure Media Services accounts in an attempt to obtain higher limits.
Azure Media Services v2 (legacy)
For limits specific to Media Services v2 (legacy), see [Media Services v2 (legacy)]
Azure Mobile Services limits
For more information on limits and pricing, seeAzure Mobile Services pricing.
Azure networking limits
Networking limits - Azure Resource Manager
The following limits apply only for networking resources managed throughAzure Resource Managerper region per subscription. Learn how toview your current resource usage against your subscription limits.
Note
We have increased all default limits to their maximum limits. If there's no maximum limit column, the resource doesn't have adjustable limits. If you had these limits manually increased by support in the past and are currently seeing limits lower than what is listed in the following tables,open an online customer support request at no charge
1Default limits for Public IP addresses vary by offer category type, such as Free Trial, Pay-As-You-Go, CSP. For example, the default for Enterprise Agreement subscriptions is 1000.
2Public IP addresses limit refers to the total amount of Public IP addresses, including Basic and Standard.
The following limits apply only for networking resources managed through theclassicdeployment model per subscription. Learn how toview your current resource usage against your subscription limits.
Azure Load Balancer limits
Standard Load Balancer
1Each NIC can have a total of 300 rules (load balancing, inbound NAT, and outbound rules combined) configured across all IP configurations on the NIC.2Backend IP configurations are aggregated across all load balancer rules including load balancing, inbound NAT, and outbound rules. Each rule a backend pool instance is configured to counts as one configuration.
Load Balancer doesn't apply any throughput limits. However, throughput limits for virtual machines and virtual networks still apply. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth.
Gateway Load Balancer
All limits for Standard Load Balancer also apply to Gateway Load Balancer.
Basic Load Balancer
3The limit for a single discrete resource in a backend pool (standalone virtual machine, availability set, or virtual machine scale-set placement group) is to have up to 250 Frontend IP configurations across a single Basic Public Load Balancer and Basic Internal Load Balancer.
Azure Application Gateway limits
The following table applies to v1, v2, Standard, and WAF SKUs unless otherwise stated.
1The number of resources listed in the table applies to standard Application Gateway SKUs and WAF-enabled SKUs running CRS 3.2 or DRS. For WAF-enabled SKUs running CRS 3.1 or lower, the supported number is 40. For more information, seeWAF engine.
2Limit is per Application Gateway instance not per Application Gateway resource.
3Must define the value via WAF Policy for Application Gateway.
Azure Application Gateway for Containers limits
Kubernetes Ingress and Gateway API configuration limits
Azure Bastion limits
An instance is an optimized Azure VM that is created when you configure Azure Bastion. When you configure Azure Bastion using the Basic SKU, 2 instances are created. If you use the Standard SKU, you can specify the number of instances between 2-50.
*These workload types are defined here:Remote Desktop workloads**These limits are based on RDP performance tests for Azure Bastion. The numbers may vary due to other on-going RDP sessions or other on-going SSH sessions.
Azure DNS limits
1If you need to increase these quota limits, contact Azure Support.
1These limits are applied to every individual virtual machine and not at the virtual network level. DNS queries exceeding these limits are dropped. These limits apply to the default Azure resolver, not the DNS private resolver.
1Different limits might be enforced by the Azure portal until the portal is updated. Use PowerShell to provision elements up to the most current limits.
Azure Firewall limits
Azure Front Door (classic) limits
In addition to the following limits, there arecomposite limit on the number of routing rules, front-end domains, protocols, and paths.
1If the traffic isn't globally distributed and concentrated in one or more regions, or if a higher quota limited is need, create anAzure support request.
2To request a limit increase, create anAzure Support request. Free subscriptions includingAzure Free AccountandAzure for Studentsaren't eligible for limit or quota increases. If you have a free subscription, you canupgradeto a Pay-As-You-Go subscription.
Azure Front Door Standard and Premium service limits
Maximum of500total Standard and Premium profiles per subscription.
In addition to the following limits, there arecomposite limit on the number of routes, domains, protocols, and paths.
1If the traffic isn't globally distributed and concentrated in one or more regions, or if a higher quota limited is need, create anAzure support request.
2Azure Front Door currently has a 5,000 request per seconds per POP limit.
3If you need more than 3,000 concurrent WebSocket connections, submit aAzure support request.
Header timeout - After establishing TCP/TLS connection, Front Door has a 5-second timeout for receiving all headers from the client. The connection is terminated if the client doesn't send headers within 5 seconds. You can't configure this timeout value.
HTTP keep-alive timeout - Front Door has a 90-second HTTP keep-alive timeout. The connection is terminated if the client doesn't send data for 90 seconds. You can't configure this timeout value.
After the HTTP request gets forwarded to the back end, Azure Front Door waits for 60 seconds (Standard and Premium) or 30 seconds (classic) for the first packet from the back end. Then it returns a 503 error to the client, or 504 for a cached request. You can configure this value using theoriginResponseTimeoutSecondsfield in Azure Front Door Standard and Premium API, or the sendRecvTimeoutSeconds field in the Azure Front Door (classic) API.
After the HTTP request gets forwarded to the back end, Azure Front Door waits for 60 seconds (Standard and Premium) or 30 seconds (classic) for the first packet from the back end. Then it returns a 503 error to the client, or 504 for a cached request. You can configure this value using theoriginResponseTimeoutSecondsfield in Azure Front Door Standard and Premium API, or the sendRecvTimeoutSeconds field in the Azure Front Door (classic) API.
After the back end receives the first packet, if the origin pauses for any reason in the middle of the response body beyond the originResponseTimeoutSeconds or sendRecvTimeoutSeconds, the response is canceled.
After the back end receives the first packet, if the origin pauses for any reason in the middle of the response body beyond the originResponseTimeoutSeconds or sendRecvTimeoutSeconds, the response is canceled.
Front Door takes advantage of HTTP keep-alive to keep connections open for reuse from previous requests. These connections have an idle timeout of 90 seconds. Azure Front Door would disconnect idle connections after reaching the 90-second idle timeout. This timeout value can't be configured.
Front Door takes advantage of HTTP keep-alive to keep connections open for reuse from previous requests. These connections have an idle timeout of 90 seconds. Azure Front Door would disconnect idle connections after reaching the 90-second idle timeout. This timeout value can't be configured.
Maximum URL size - 8,192 bytes - Specifies maximum length of the raw URL (scheme + hostname + port + path + query string of the URL)
Maximum Query String size - 4,096 bytes - Specifies the maximum length of the query string, in bytes.
Maximum HTTP response header size from health probe URL - 4,096 bytes - Specified the maximum length of all the response headers of health probes.
Maximum rules engine action header value character: 640 characters.
Maximum rules engine condition header value character: 256 characters.
Maximum ETag header size: 128 bytes
Maximum endpoint name for Standard and Premium: 46 characters.
For more information about limits that apply to Rules Engine configurations, seerules engine terminology
Azure Network Watcher limits
Azure Route Server limits
1If your NVA advertises more routes than the limit, the BGP session gets dropped.
Note
The total number of routes advertised from virtual network address space and Route Server towards ExpressRoute circuit, whenBranch-to-branchenabled, must not exceed 1,000. For more information, seeRoute advertisement limitsof ExpressRoute.
Azure ExpressRoute limits
*100-Gbps ExpressRoute Direct Only
Note
Global Reach connections count against the limit of virtual network connections per ExpressRoute Circuit. For example, a 10 Gbps Premium Circuit would allow for 5 Global Reach connections and 95 connections to the ExpressRoute Gateways or 95 Global Reach connections and 5 connections to the ExpressRoute Gateways or any other combination up to the limit of 100 connections for the circuit.
The following tables provide an overview of the different types of gateways, their respective limitations, and their expected performance metrics.
This table applies to both the Azure Resource Manager and classic deployment models.
1The values in the table are estimates and vary depending on the CPU utilization of the gateway. If the CPU utilization is high and the number of supported VMs is exceeded, the gateway will start to drop packets.
Note
ExpressRoute can facilitate up to 11,000 routes that span virtual network address spaces, on-premises networks, and any relevant virtual network peering connections. To ensure stability of your ExpressRoute connection, refrain from advertising more than 11,000 routes to ExpressRoute. The maximum number of routes advertised by gateway is 1,000 routes.
Important
Application performance depends on multiple factors, such as end-to-end latency and the number of traffic flows that the application opens. The numbers in the table represent the upper limit that the application can theoretically achieve in an ideal environment. Additionally, we perform routine host and OS maintenance on the ExpressRoute virtual network gateway, to maintain reliability of the service. During a maintenance period, the control plane and data path capacity of the gateway is reduced.
During a maintenance period, you might experience intermittent connectivity problems to private endpoint resources.
ExpressRoute supports a maximum TCP and UDP packet size of 1,400 bytes. Packet sizes larger than 1,400 bytes will get fragmented.
Azure Route Server can support up to 4,000 VMs. This limit includes VMs in virtual networks that are peered. For more information, seeAzure Route Server limitations.
The values in the table above represent the limits at each Gateway SKU.
Azure NAT Gateway limits
The following limits apply to NAT gateway resources managed through Azure Resource Manager per region per subscription. Learn how toview your current resource usage against your subscription limits.
1The total data throughput of 50 Gbps is split between outbound and inbound (return) data through a NAT gateway resource. Data throughput is rate limited at 25 Gbps for outbound data and 25 Gbps for inbound (response) data through NAT gateway.
2Default limits for NAT gateways vary by offer category type, such as Free Trial, pay-as-you-go, and CSP. For example, the default for Enterprise Agreement subscriptions is 1000.
Azure Private Link limits
The following limits apply to Azure private link:
Azure Traffic Manager limits
1If you need to increase these limits, contact Azure Support.
Azure VPN Gateway limits
Unless stated otherwise, the following limits apply to Azure VPN Gateway resources and virtual network gateways.
For more information about gateway SKUs and limits, seeAbout gateway SKUs.
The table in this section lists the results of performance tests for VpnGw SKUs. A VPN tunnel connects to a VPN gateway instance. Each instance throughput is mentioned in the throughput table in the previous section and is available aggregated across all tunnels connecting to that instance. The table shows the observed bandwidth and packets per second throughput per tunnel for the different gateway SKUs. All testing was performed between gateways (endpoints) within Azure across different regions with 100 connections and under standard load conditions. We used publicly available iPerf and CTSTraffic tools to measure performances for site-to-site connections
The best performance was obtained when we used the GCMAES256 algorithm for both IPsec Encryption and Integrity.
Average performance was obtained when using AES256 for IPsec Encryption and SHA256 for Integrity.
The lowest performance was obtained when we used DES3 for IPsec Encryption and SHA256 for Integrity.
Azure Virtual WAN limits
Azure Notification Hubs limits
For more information on limits and pricing, seeNotification Hubs pricing.
Microsoft Dev Box limits

Microsoft Entra service limits
SeeMicrosoft Entra service limitsfor Microsoft Entra service limits.
Microsoft Purview limits
SeeClassic Microsoft Purview data governance limitsfor the most current Microsoft Purview quotas.
Microsoft Sentinel limits
SeeService limits for Microsoft Sentinelfor Microsoft Sentinel limits.
Azure Service Bus limits
The following table lists quota information specific to Azure Service Bus messaging. For information about pricing and other quotas for Service Bus, seeService Bus pricing.
Microsoft.ServiceBus
1, 2, 3, 4 GB or 5 GB
In the Premium SKU, and the Standard SKU withpartitioningenabled, the maximum queue or topic size is 80 GB.
Total size of all entities in a namespace can't exceed the namespace size limit documented in the next row.
Currently, a large message (size > 1 MB) sent to a queue is counted twice. And, a large message (size > 1 MB) sent to a topic is counted X + 1 times, where X is the number of subscriptions to the topic.
For a premium namespace, the total size limit for a premium namespace permessaging unitis 1 TB.
The total size limit for a standard namespace is 400 GB.
If you want to have more partitioned entities in a basic or a standard tier namespace, create additional namespaces.
Maximum message property size for each property is 32 KB.
Cumulative size of all properties can't exceed 64 KB. This limit applies to the entire header of the brokered message, which has both user properties and system properties, such as sequence number, label, and message ID.
Maximum number of header properties in property bag:byte/int.MaxValue.
SerializationException
Azure Site Recovery limits
The following limits apply to Azure Site Recovery.
Azure SQL Database limits
For Azure SQL Database limits see:
Overview of Azure SQL Managed Instance resource limits
Resource limits for single databases using the vCore purchasing model
Resource limits for elastic pools using the vCore purchasing model
The maximum number of private endpoints per Azure SQL Database logical server is 250.
Azure Synapse Analytics limits
Azure Synapse Analytics has the following default limits to ensure customer's subscriptions are protected from each other's workloads. To raise the limits to the maximum for your subscription, contact support.
Azure Synapse limits for workspaces
For Pay-As-You-Go, Free Trial, Azure Pass, and Azure for Students subscription offer types:
For other subscription offer types:
Azure Synapse limits for Apache Spark
For Pay-As-You-Go, Free Trial, Azure Pass, and Azure for Students subscription offer types:
For other subscription offer types:
For additional limits for Spark pools, seeConcurrency and API rate limits for Apache Spark pools in Azure Synapse Analytics.
Azure Synapse limits for pipelines
1The data integration unit (DIU) is used in a cloud-to-cloud copy operation, learn more fromData integration units (version 2). For information on billing, seeAzure Synapse Analytics Pricing.
2Azure Integration Runtimeisglobally availableto ensure data compliance, efficiency, and reduced network egress costs.
If managed virtual network is enabled, the data integration unit (DIU) in all region groups are 2,400.
3Pipeline, data set, and linked service objects represent a logical grouping of your workload. Limits for these objects don't relate to the amount of data you can move and process with Azure Synapse Analytics. Synapse Analytics is designed to scale to handle petabytes of data.
4The payload for each activity run includes the activity configuration, the associated dataset(s) and linked service(s) configurations if any, and a small portion of system properties generated per activity type. Limit for this payload size doesn't relate to the amount of data you can move and process with Azure Synapse Analytics. Learn about thesymptoms and recommendationif you hit this limit.
Azure Synapse limits for dedicated SQL pools
For details of capacity limits for dedicated SQL pools in Azure Synapse Analytics, seededicated SQL pool resource limits.
Azure Resource Manager limits for web service calls
Azure Resource Manager has limits for API calls. You can make API calls at a rate within theAzure Resource Manager API limits.
Azure virtual machine disk limits
You can attach a number of data disks to an Azure virtual machine (VM). Based on the scalability and performance targets for a VM's data disks, you can determine the number and type of disk that you need to meet your performance and capacity requirements.
Important
For optimal performance, limit the number of highly utilized disks attached to the virtual machine to avoid possible throttling. If all attached disks aren't highly utilized at the same time, the virtual machine can support a larger number of disks. Additionally, when creating a managed disk from an existing managed disk, only 49 disks can be created concurrently. More disks can be created after some of the initial 49 have been created.
For Azure managed disks:
The following table illustrates the default and maximum limits of the number of resources per region per subscription. The limits remain the same irrespective of disks encrypted with either platform-managed keys or customer-managed keys. There is no limit for the number of Managed Disks, snapshots and images per resource group.
1An individual disk can have 500 incremental snapshots.
2This is the default max but higher capacities are supported by request. To request an increase in capacity, request a quota increase or contact Azure Support.
For standard storage accounts:
A Standard storage account has a maximum total request rate of 20,000 IOPS. The total IOPS across all of your virtual machine disks in a Standard storage account should not exceed this limit.
For unmanaged disks, you can roughly calculate the number of highly utilized disks supported by a single standard storage account based on the request rate limit. For example, for a Basic tier VM, the maximum number of highly utilized disks is about 66, which is 20,000/300 IOPS per disk. The maximum number of highly utilized disks for a Standard tier VM is about 40, which is 20,000/500 IOPS per disk.
For premium storage accounts:
A premium storage account has a maximum total throughput rate of 50 Gbps. The total throughput across all of your VM disks should not exceed this limit.
Seesizes for virtual machines in Azurefor more information.
For VM Applications
When working with VM applications in Azure, you may encounter an error message that says "Operation could not be completed as it results in exceeding approved UnmanagedStorageAccountCount quota." This error occurs when you have reached the limit for the number of unmanaged storage accounts that you can use.
When you publish a VM application, Azure needs to replicate it across multiple regions. To do this, Azure creates an unmanaged storage account for each region. The number of unmanaged storage accounts that an application uses is determined by the number of replicas across all applications.
As a general rule, each storage account can accommodate up to 200 simultaneous connections. Below are options for resolving the "UnmanagedStorageAccountCount" error:
Use page blobs for your source application blobs. Unmanaged accounts are only used for block blob replication. Page blobs have no such limits.
Reduce the number of replicas for your VM Application versions or delete applications you no longer need.
File a support request to obtain a quota increase.
SeeVM Applications overviewfor more information.
A limit of 5,000 disk encryption sets are allowed per region and per subscription.Contact Azure supportto increase the quota.
See the following documentation to learn more about about encryption restrictions:
Linux
Windowsvirtual machines
Azure-managed virtual machine disks
Standard HDD managed disks
* Only applies to disks with performance plus enabled.
Standard SSD managed disks
* Only applies to disks with performance plus enabled.
Premium SSD managed disks: Per-disk limits
*Applies only to disks with on-demand bursting enabled.** Only applies to disks with performance plus enabled.
Premium SSD managed disks: Per-VM limits
Unmanaged virtual machine disks
Standard unmanaged virtual machine disks: Per-disk limits
Premium unmanaged virtual machine disks: Per-account limits
1Ingressrefers to all data from requests that are sent to a storage account.Egressrefers to all data from responses that are received from a storage account.
Premium unmanaged virtual machine disks: Per-disk limits
Premium unmanaged virtual machine disks: Per-VM limits
Azure StorSimple System limits
If there are more than 16 volumes, they're processed sequentially as processing slots become available.
New backups of a cloned or a restored tiered volume can't occur until the operation is finished. For a local volume, backups are allowed after the volume is online.
The volume is made available within 2 minutes of a restore or clone operation, regardless of the volume size.
The volume performance might initially be slower than normal as most of the data and metadata still resides in the cloud. Performance might increase as data flows from the cloud to the StorSimple device.
The total time to download metadata depends on the allocated volume size. Metadata is automatically brought into the device in the background at the rate of 5 minutes per TB of allocated volume data. This rate might be affected by Internet bandwidth to the cloud.
The restore or clone operation is complete when all the metadata is on the device.
Backup operations can't be performed until the restore or clone operation is fully complete.
The volume is made available within 2 minutes of the restore operation, regardless of the volume size.
The volume performance might initially be slower than normal as most of the data and metadata still resides in the cloud. Performance might increase as data flows from the cloud to the StorSimple device.
The total time to download metadata depends on the allocated volume size. Metadata is automatically brought into the device in the background at the rate of 5 minutes per TB of allocated volume data. This rate might be affected by Internet bandwidth to the cloud.
Unlike tiered volumes, if there are locally pinned volumes, the volume data is also downloaded locally on the device. The restore operation is complete when all the volume data has been brought to the device.
The restore operations might be long and the total time to complete the restore will depend on the size of the provisioned local volume, your Internet bandwidth, and the existing data on the device. Backup operations on the locally pinned volume are allowed while the restore operation is in progress.
*Maximum throughput per I/O type was measured with 100 percent read and 100 percent write scenarios. Actual throughput might be lower and depends on I/O mix and network conditions.
Azure Stream Analytics limits
Azure Virtual Machines limits
Azure Virtual Machines limits
1Virtual machines created by using the classic deployment model instead of Azure Resource Manager are automatically stored in a cloud service. You can add more virtual machines to that cloud service for load balancing and availability.
2Input endpoints allow communications to a virtual machine from outside the virtual machine's cloud service. Virtual machines in the same cloud service or virtual network can automatically communicate with each other.
Azure Virtual Machines limits - Azure Resource Manager
The following limits apply when you use Azure Resource Manager and Azure resource groups.
1Default limits vary by offer category type, such as Free Trial and Pay-As-You-Go, and by series, such as Dv2, F, and G. For example, the default for Enterprise Agreement subscriptions is 350. For security, subscriptions default to 20 cores to prevent large core deployments. If you need more cores, submit a support ticket.
2Properties such as SSH public keys are also pushed as certificates and count towards this limit. To bypass this limit, use theAzure Key Vault extension for Windowsor theAzure Key Vault extension for Linuxto install certificates.
3With Azure Resource Manager, certificates are stored in the Azure Key Vault. The number of certificates is unlimited for a subscription. There's a 1-MB limit of certificates per deployment, which consists of either a single VM or an availability set.
Note
Virtual machine cores have a regional total limit. They also have a limit for regional per-size series, such as Dv2 and F. These limits are separately enforced. For example, consider a subscription with a US East total VM core limit of 30, an A series core limit of 30, and a D series core limit of 30. This subscription can deploy 30 A1 VMs, or 30 D1 VMs, or a combination of the two not to exceed a total of 30 cores. An example of a combination is 10 A1 VMs and 20 D1 VMs.
Azure Compute Gallery limits
There are limits per subscription for deploying resources when you use Compute Galleries:
100 compute galleries per subscription and per region
1,000 image definitions per subscription and per region
10,000 image versions per subscription and per region
Managed Run Command limit
The maximum allowed Managed Run Commands is currently limited to 25.
Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets limits
Azure Virtual Network Manager limits
Dev tunnels limits
The following limits apply todev tunnels. The limits reset monthly.
For questions on these limits, open an issue in ourGitHub repo.
Network security perimeter limits
Scale limitations
Network security perimeter functionality can be used to support deployments of PaaS resources with common public network controls with following scale limitations:
Other limitations
Network security perimeter has other limitations as follows:
{resourceName}-{perimeter-guid}
Note
Refer to individual PaaS documentation for respective limitations for each service.
Next steps
Continue to the following resources to learn more:
Understand Azure Limits and Increases
Sizes for virtual machines in Azure
Sizes for Cloud Services (classic)
Naming rules and restrictions for Azure resources
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources