Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
MLflow and Azure Machine Learning
Article
2024-09-30
15 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure CLI ml extension v2 (current)Python SDK azure-ai-ml v2 (current)
This article describes the capabilities ofMLflow, an open-source framework designed to manage the complete machine learning lifecycle. MLflow uses a consistent set of tools to train and serve models on different platforms. You can use MLflow whether your experiments are running locally or on a remote compute target, virtual machine, or Azure Machine Learning compute instance.
Azure Machine Learning workspaces are MLflow-compatible, which means that you can use an Azure Machine Learning workspace the same way you use an MLflow server. This compatibility has the following advantages:
Azure Machine Learning doesn't host MLflow server instances, but can use the MLflow APIs directly.
You can use an Azure Machine Learning workspace as your tracking server for any MLflow code, whether or not it runs in Azure Machine Learning. You only need to configure MLflow to point to the workspace where the tracking should occur.
You can run any training routine that uses MLflow in Azure Machine Learning without making any changes.
Tip
Unlike the Azure Machine Learning SDK v1, there's no logging functionality in the Azure Machine Learning v2 SDK. You can use MLflow logging to ensure that your training routines are cloud-agnostic, portable, and have no dependency on Azure Machine Learning.
What is tracking
When you work with jobs, Azure Machine Learning automatically tracks some information about experiments, such as code, environment, and input and output data. However, models, parameters, and metrics are specific to the scenario, so model builders must configure their tracking.
The saved tracking metadata varies by experiment, and can include:
Code
Environment details such as OS version and Python packages
Input data
Parameter configurations
Models
Evaluation metrics
Evaluation visualizations such as confusion matrices and importance plots
Evaluation results, including some evaluation predictions
Benefits of tracking experiments
Whether you train models with jobs in Azure Machine Learning or interactively in notebooks, experiment tracking helps you:
Organize all of your machine learning experiments in a single place. You can then search and filter experiments and drill down to see details about previous experiments.
Easily compare experiments, analyze results, and debug model training.
Reproduce or rerun experiments to validate results.
Improve collaboration, because you can see what other teammates are doing, share experiment results, and access experiment data programmatically.
Tracking with MLflow
Azure Machine Learning workspaces are MLflow-compatible. This compatibility means you can use MLflow to track runs, metrics, parameters, and artifacts in workspaces without needing to change your training routines or inject any cloud-specific syntax. To learn how to use MLflow for tracking experiments and runs in Azure Machine Learning workspaces, seeTrack experiments and models with MLflow.
Azure Machine Learning uses MLflow tracking to log metrics and store artifacts for your experiments. When you're connected to Azure Machine Learning, all MLflow tracking materializes in the workspace you're working in.
To learn how to enable logging to monitor real-time run metrics with MLflow, seeLog metrics, parameters, and files with MLflow. You can alsoquery and compare experiments and runs with MLflow.
MLflow in Azure Machine Learning provides a way to centralize tracking. You can connect MLflow to Azure Machine Learning workspaces even when you're working locally or in a different cloud. The Azure Machine Learning workspace provides a centralized, secure, and scalable location to store training metrics and models.
MLflow in Azure Machine Learning can:
Track machine learning experiments and models running locally or in the cloud.
Track Azure Databricks machine learning experiments.
Track Azure Synapse Analytics machine learning experiments.
Tracking with MLflow in R
MLflow support in R has the following limitations:
MLflow tracking is limited to tracking experiment metrics, parameters, and models on Azure Machine Learning jobs.
Interactive training on RStudio, Posit (formerly RStudio Workbench), or Jupyter notebooks with R kernels isn't supported.
Model management and registration aren't supported. Use the Azure Machine Learning CLI or Azure Machine Learning studio for model registration and management.
For examples of using the MLflow tracking client with R models in Azure Machine Learning, seeTrain R models using the Azure Machine Learning CLI (v2).
Tracking with MLflow in Java
MLflow support in Java has the following limitations:
MLflow tracking is limited to tracking experiment metrics and parameters on Azure Machine Learning jobs.
Artifacts and models can't be tracked. Instead, use themlflow.save_modelmethod with theoutputsfolder in jobs to save models or artifacts that you want to capture.
mlflow.save_model
outputs
For a Java example that uses the MLflow tracking client with the Azure Machine Learning tracking server, seeazuremlflow-java.
Example notebooks for MLflow tracking
Training and tracking an XGBoost classifier with MLflowdemonstrates how to use MLflow to track experiments, log models, and combine multiple flavors into pipelines.
Training and tracking an XGBoost classifier with MLflow using service principal authenticationdemonstrates how to use MLflow to track experiments from a compute that's running outside Azure Machine Learning. The example shows how to authenticate against Azure Machine Learning services by using a service principal.
Hyperparameter optimization using HyperOpt and nested runs in MLflowdemonstrates how to use child runs to do hyperparameter optimization for models by using the popular HyperOpt library. The example shows how to transfer metrics, parameters, and artifacts from child runs to parent runs.
Logging models with MLflowdemonstrates how to use the concept of models instead of artifacts with MLflow. The example also shows how to construct custom models.
Manage runs and experiments with MLflowdemonstrates how to use MLflow to query experiments, runs, metrics, parameters, and artifacts from Azure Machine Learning.
Model registration with MLflow
Azure Machine Learning supports MLflow for model management. This support is a convenient way for users who are familiar with the MLflow client to manage the entire model lifecycle. For more information about how to manage models by using the MLflow API in Azure Machine Learning, seeManage model registries in Azure Machine Learning with MLflow.
Example notebook for MLflow model registration
Model management with MLflowdemonstrates how to manage models in registries.
Model deployment with MLflow
You can deploy MLflow models to Azure Machine Learning to take advantage of an improved experience. Azure Machine Learning supports deployment of MLflow models to both real-time and batch endpoints without having to specify an environment or a scoring script.
The MLflow SDK, Azure Machine Learning CLI, Azure Machine Learning SDK for Python, and Azure Machine Learning studio all support MLflow model deployment. For more information about deploying MLflow models to Azure Machine Learning for both real-time and batch inferencing, seeGuidelines for deploying MLflow models.
Example notebooks for MLflow model deployment
Deploy MLflow to online endpointsdemonstrates how to deploy MLflow models to online endpoints using the MLflow SDK.
Progressive rollout of MLflow deploymentsdemonstrates how to deploy MLflow models to online endpoints using the MLflow SDK with progressive model rollout. The example also shows deployment of multiple versions of a model to the same endpoint.
Deploy MLflow models to legacy web servicesdemonstrates how to deploy MLflow models to legacy web services (Azure Container Instances or Azure Kubernetes Service v1) using the MLflow SDK.
Train models in Azure Databricks and deploy them on Azure Machine Learningdemonstrates how to train models in Azure Databricks and deploy them in Azure Machine Learning. The example also covers tracking experiments with the MLflow instance in Azure Databricks.
Training with MLflow Projects (preview)
Warning
Support forMLprojectfiles (MLflow Projects) in Azure Machine Learning will be fully retired in September 2026.MLflow is still fully supportedand is still the recommended way to track machine learning workloads in Azure Machine Learning.
MLproject
As you continue to use MLflow, we recommend that you transition fromMLprojectfiles to Azure Machine LearningJobs, using either the Azure CLI or the Azure Machine Learning SDK for Python (v2). For more information on Azure Machine Learning jobs, seeTrack ML experiments and models with MLflow.
MLproject
Important
This feature is currently in public preview. This preview version is provided without a service-level agreement, and we don't recommend it for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities.
For more information, seeSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews.
You can submit training jobs to Azure Machine Learning by usingMLflow Projects. You can submit jobs locally with Azure Machine Learning tracking or migrate your jobs to the cloud viaAzure Machine Learning compute.
To learn how to submit training jobs that use MLflow Projects to Azure Machine Learning workspaces for tracking, seeTrain with MLflow Projects in Azure Machine Learning (preview).
Example notebooks for MLflow Projects
Train with MLflow Projects on local compute.
Train with MLflow Projects on Azure Machine Learning compute.
MLflow vs Azure Machine Learning client tools capabilities
The following table shows machine learning lifecycle operations that are possible with the MLflow SDK and the Azure Machine Learning client tools.
1For more information, seeManage model registries in Azure Machine Learning with MLflow.
2For an alternative, seeDeploy and run MLflow models in Spark jobs.
Related content
Configure MLflow for Azure Machine Learning
Track ML experiments and models with MLflow
Guidelines for deploying MLflow models
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources