Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Red Hat Enterprise Linux landing zone accelerator
Article
2024-07-29
3 contributors
In this article
The Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) landing zone accelerator is an open-source collection of architectural guidance and reference implementation recommendations. You can use this guidance to accelerate the migration and deployment of RHEL-based workloads to Microsoft Azure. This article provides a recommended architectural approach and reference implementation via infrastructure as code (IaC) templates that you can use to prepare your landing zones. The landing zones adhere to the architectural best practices of theCloud Adoption Framework for Azureand Red Hat Infrastructure Standard.
This article is the first article in a series that describes the RHEL landing zone and covers key design areas and scenarios that you can use to deploy workloads. The RHEL landing zone is an infrastructure as a service (IaaS) solution. The goal of this series is to promote consistent, repeatable, and secure environment deployments and operations that follow best practices.
Implement a platform foundation
The Azure RHEL landing zone accelerator assumes that you successfully implemented a platform foundation, including the shared services that you require to deploy and operationalize a landing zone. Shared services include networking, security, identity, and governance services.
You don't need a platform foundation to implement a landing zone accelerator. But a platform foundation handles a significant amount of the security and management controls that you need to safely manage your cloud environment. If you already have a platform foundation, you can skip this step. For more information, seeImplement an Azure landing zone.
Landing zone accelerator benefits
The landing zone accelerator method for Azure RHEL provides:
A modular approach that you can use to customize your environment variables.
Design guidelines to evaluate critical decisions.
The landing zone architecture.
A Microsoft-recommended reference implementation for RHEL on Azure.
Design areas
There are many considerations to keep in mind when you create Azure landing zones. Think about considerations for:
Identity and access management
Business continuity and disaster recovery
Network topology and connectivity
Resource organization
Security
Management and monitoring
Governance and compliance
Deployment options
Reference architecture
The following diagram shows the landing zone accelerator architecture.

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Next step
Identity and access management for your Azure RHEL landing zone
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources