Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Traffic Manager?
Article
2023-08-15
13 contributors
In this article
Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic load balancer. This service allows you to distribute traffic to your public facing applications across the global Azure regions. Traffic Manager also provides your public endpoints with high availability and quick responsiveness.
Traffic Manager uses DNS to direct client requests to the appropriate service endpoint based on a traffic-routing method. Traffic manager also provides health monitoring for every endpoint. The endpoint can be any Internet-facing service hosted inside or outside of Azure. Traffic Manager provides a range oftraffic-routing methodsandendpoint monitoring optionsto suit different application needs and automatic failover models. Traffic Manager is resilient to failure, including the failure of an entire Azure region.
Note
Azure provides a suite of fully managed load-balancing solutions for your scenarios.
If you want to load balance between your servers in a region at the application layer, reviewApplication Gateway.
If you need to optimize global routing of your web traffic and optimize top-tier end-user performance and reliability through quick global failover, seeFront Door.
To do network layer load balancing, reviewLoad Balancer.
Your end-to-end scenarios may benefit from combining these solutions as needed.
For an Azure load-balancing options comparison, seeOverview of load-balancing options in Azure.
For more information about Traffic Manager, see:
How Traffic Manager works
Traffic Manager FAQs
Traffic Manager profiles
Traffic Manager endpoints
Traffic Manager offers the following features:
Increase application availability
Traffic Manager delivers high availability for your critical applications by monitoring your endpoints and providing automatic failover when an endpoint goes down.
Improve application performance
Azure allows you to run cloud services and websites in datacenters located around the world. Traffic Manager can improve the responsiveness of your website by directing traffic to the endpoint with the lowest latency.
Service maintenance without downtime
You can have planned maintenance done on your applications without downtime. Traffic Manager can direct traffic to alternative endpoints while the maintenance is in progress.
Combine hybrid applications
Traffic Manager supports external, non-Azure endpoints enabling it to be used with hybrid cloud and on-premises deployments, including the "burst-to-cloud," "migrate-to-cloud," and "failover-to-cloud" scenarios.
Distribute traffic for complex deployments
When you usenested Traffic Manager profiles, multiple traffic-routing methods can be combined to create sophisticated and flexible rules to scale to the needs of larger, more complex deployments.
Pricing
For pricing information, seeTraffic Manager Pricing.
Next steps
Learn how tocreate a Traffic Manager profile.
Learnhow Traffic Manager Works.
Viewfrequently asked questionsabout Traffic Manager.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources