Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Observability in Azure API Management
Article
2025-02-10
3 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: All API Management tiers
Observability is the ability to understand the internal state of a system from the data it produces and the ability to explore that data to answer questions about what happened and why.
Azure API Management helps organizations centralize the management of all APIs. Since it serves as a single point of entry of all API traffic, it's an ideal place to observe the APIs.
Overview
Azure API Management allows you to choose to use the managed gateway orself-hosted gateway, either self-deployed or by using anAzure Arc extension.
The following table summarizes all the observability capabilities supported by API Management to operate APIs and what deployment models they support. API publishers and others with permissions to operate or manage the API Management instance can use these capabilities.
Note
For API consumers who use the developer portal, a built-in API report is available. It only provides information about their individual API usage during the preceding 90 days. Currently, the built-in API report isn't available in the developer portal for the v2 service tiers.
1. Optional, depending on the configuration of feature in Azure API Management
2. Optional, depending on the configuration of the gateway
3. Theself-hosted gatewaycurrently doesn't send diagnostic logs to Azure Monitor. However, it's possible to configure and persist logs locally where the self-hosted gateway is deployed. For more information, please seeconfiguring local metrics and logs for self-hosted gateway
Related content
Get started withAzure Monitor for API Management
Learn how to log requests withApplication Insights
Learn how to log events throughEvent Hubs
Learn about visualizing Azure Monitor data usingAzure Managed Grafana
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources