Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Compare AWS and Azure security and identity management solutions
Article
2025-04-17
14 contributors
In this article
This guide is for organizations that use Amazon Web Services (AWS) and want to migrate to Azure or adopt a multicloud strategy. This guidance compares AWS identity management solutions to similar Azure solutions.
Tip
For information about extending Microsoft Entra ID into AWS, seeMicrosoft Entra identity management and access management for AWS.
Core identity services
Core identity services in both platforms form the foundation of identity and access management. These services include core authentication, authorization, and accounting capabilities, and the ability to organize cloud resources into logical structures. AWS professionals can use similar capabilities in Azure. These capabilities might have architectural differences in implementation.
Authentication and access control
Authentication and access control services in both platforms provide essential security features to verify user identities and manage resource access. These services handle MFA, access reviews, external user management, and role-based permissions.
Identity governance
To maintain security and compliance, you must manage identities and access. Both AWS and Azure provide solutions for identity governance. Organizations and workload teams can use these solutions to manage the lifecycle of identities, conduct access reviews, and control privileged access.
In AWS, managing the identity lifecycle, access reviews, and privileged access requires a combination of several services.
AWS IAM handles secure access to resources.
IAM Access Analyzer helps identify shared resources.
AWS Organizations provides centralized management of multiple accounts.
IAM Identity Center provides centralized access management.
AWS CloudTrail and AWS Config enable governance, compliance, and auditing of AWS resources.
You can tailor these services to meet specific organizational needs, which helps ensure compliance and security.
In Azure,Microsoft Entra ID Governanceprovides an integrated solution to manage the identity lifecycle, access reviews, and privileged access. It simplifies these processes by incorporating automated workflows, access certifications, and policy enforcement. These capabilities provide a unified approach to identity governance.
Privileged access management
AWS IAM temporary elevated access is an open-source security solution that grants temporary elevated access to AWS resources via AWS IAM Identity Center. This approach ensures that users only have elevated privileges for a limited time and for specific tasks to reduce the risk of unauthorized access.
Microsoft Entra Privileged Identity Management (PIM)provides just-in-time privileged access management. You use PIM to manage, control, and monitor access to important resources and critical permissions in your organization. PIM includes features such as role activation via approval workflows, time-bound access, and access reviews to ensure that privileged roles are only granted when necessary and are fully audited.
Hybrid identity
Both platforms provide solutions to manage hybrid identity scenarios that integrate cloud and on-premises resources.
Application and API user authentication and authorization
Both platforms provide identity services to secure application access and API authentication. These services manage user authentication, application permissions, and API access controls through identity-based mechanisms. TheMicrosoft identity platformserves as the Azure unified framework for authentication and authorization across applications, APIs, and services. It implements standards like OAuth 2.0 and OIDC. AWS provides similar capabilities throughAmazon Cognitoas part of its identity suite.
Key architectural differences
AWS approach:Distributed services that are composed together
Microsoft approach:Unified platform that has integrated components
Developer SDK and libraries
OAuth 2.0 flow implementation
Identity provider integration
Token services
Application registration and security
Developer experience
Platform-specific features
Contributors
Microsoft maintains this article. The following contributors wrote this article.
Principal author:
Jerry Rhoads|
Principal Partner Solutions Architect
Other contributor:
Adam Cerini| Director, Partner Technology Strategist
To see nonpublic LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
Plan your Microsoft Entra ID deployment
Configure hybrid identity with Microsoft Entra Connect
Implement Microsoft Entra PIM
Secure applications by using the Microsoft identity platform
Related resources
Compare AWS and Azure resource management
Compare AWS and Azure accounts
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources