Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Firewall?
Article
2025-03-19
26 contributors
In this article
Azure Firewall is a cloud-native, intelligent network firewall security service that offers top-tier threat protection for your Azure cloud workloads. It is a fully stateful firewall as a service, featuring built-in high availability and unlimited cloud scalability. Azure Firewall inspects both east-west and north-south traffic. To understand these traffic types, seeeast-west and north-south traffic.
Azure Firewall is available in three SKUs: Basic, Standard, and Premium.
Azure Firewall Basic
Azure Firewall Basic is designed for small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) to secure their Azure cloud environments. It provides essential protection at an affordable price.

Key limitations of Azure Firewall Basic include:
Supports Threat Intelalert modeonly
Fixed scale unit with two virtual machine backend instances
Recommended for environments with an estimated throughput of 250 Mbps
For more information, seeAzure Firewall Basic features.
Azure Firewall Standard
Azure Firewall Standard offers L3-L7 filtering and threat intelligence feeds directly from Microsoft Cyber Security. It can alert and block traffic from/to known malicious IP addresses and domains, updated in real-time to protect against new and emerging threats.

For more information, seeAzure Firewall Standard features.
Azure Firewall Premium
Azure Firewall Premium provides advanced capabilities, including signature-based IDPS for rapid attack detection by identifying specific patterns. These patterns can include byte sequences in network traffic or known malicious instruction sequences used by malware. With over 67,000 signatures in more than 50 categories, updated in real-time, it protects against new and emerging exploits such as malware, phishing, coin mining, and Trojan attacks.

For more information, seeAzure Firewall Premium features.
Feature comparison
To compare all Azure Firewall SKU features, seeChoose the right Azure Firewall SKU to meet your needs.
Azure Firewall Manager
Azure Firewall Manager allows you to centrally manage Azure Firewalls across multiple subscriptions. It uses firewall policies to apply a common set of network and application rules and configurations to the firewalls in your tenant.
Firewall Manager supports firewalls in both virtual network and Virtual WAN (Secure Virtual Hub) environments. Secure Virtual Hubs use the Virtual WAN route automation solution to simplify routing traffic to the firewall with just a few steps.
To learn more, seeAzure Firewall Manager.
Pricing and SLA
For pricing details, seeAzure Firewall pricing.
For SLA information, seeAzure Firewall SLA.
Supported regions
For a list of supported regions, seeAzure products available by region.
What's new
To learn about the latest updates, seeAzure updates.
Known issues
For known issues, seeAzure Firewall known issues.
Next steps
Quickstart: Create an Azure Firewall and a firewall policy - ARM template
Quickstart: Deploy Azure Firewall with Availability Zones - ARM template
Tutorial: Deploy and configure Azure Firewall using the Azure portal
Learn module: Introduction to Azure Firewall
Learn more about Azure network security
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources