Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
DDoS Protection on Azure Front Door
Article
2024-11-19
10 contributors
In this article
Azure Front Door is a Content Delivery Network (CDN) that helps protect your origins from HTTP(S) DDoS attacks by distributing traffic across its 192 edge Points of Presence (POPs) worldwide. These POPs use Azure's large private WAN to deliver your web applications and services faster and more securely to your end users. Azure Front Door includes layer 3, 4, and 7 DDoS protection and a Web Application Firewall (WAF) to safeguard your applications from common exploits and vulnerabilities.
Infrastructure DDoS Protection
Azure Front Door benefits from thedefault Azure infrastructure DDoS protection. This protection monitors and mitigates network layer attacks in real-time using the global scale and capacity of Azure Front Door’s network. It has a proven track record of safeguarding Microsoft’s enterprise and consumer services from large-scale attacks.
Protocol Blocking
Azure Front Door supports only HTTP and HTTPS protocols and requires a validHostheader for each request. This behavior helps prevent common DDoS attack types such as volumetric attacks using various protocols and ports, DNS amplification attacks, and TCP poisoning attacks.
Host
Capacity Absorption
Azure Front Door is a large-scale, globally distributed service that serves many customers, including Microsoft’s own cloud products, which handle hundreds of thousands of requests per second. Positioned at the edge of Azure’s network, Azure Front Door can intercept and geographically isolate large volume attacks, preventing malicious traffic from reaching beyond the edge of the Azure network.
Caching
You can use Azure Front Doorcaching capabilitiesto protect your backends from large traffic volumes generated by an attack. Azure Front Door edge nodes return cached resources, avoiding forwarding them to your backend. Even short cache expiry times (seconds or minutes) on dynamic responses can significantly reduce the load on your backend services. For more information about caching concepts and patterns, seeCaching considerationsandCache-aside pattern.
Web Application Firewall (WAF)
You can useAzure Web Application Firewall (WAF)to mitigate various types of attacks:
The managed rule set protects your application from many common attacks. For more information, seeManaged rules.
Block or redirect traffic from specific geographic regions to a static webpage. For more information, seeGeo-filtering.
Block IP addresses and ranges identified as malicious. For more information, seeIP restrictions.
Apply rate limiting to prevent IP addresses from calling your service too frequently. For more information, seeRate limiting.
Createcustom WAF rulesto automatically block and rate limit HTTP or HTTPS attacks with known signatures.
The bot protection managed rule set protects your application from known bad bots. For more information, seeConfiguring bot protection.
Refer toApplication DDoS protectionfor guidance on using Azure WAF to protect against DDoS attacks.
Protect Virtual Network Origins
EnableAzure DDoS Protectionon your origin virtual network to safeguard your public IPs from DDoS attacks. This service offers more benefits such as cost protection, an SLA guarantee, and access to the DDoS Rapid Response Team for expert assistance during an attack.
Private Link
Enhance the security of your Azure-hosted origins by usingAzure Private Linkto restrict access to Azure Front Door. This feature establishes a private network connection between Azure Front Door and your application servers, eliminating the need to expose your origins to the public internet.
Next steps
Set up aWAF policy for Azure Front Door.
Create anAzure Front Door profile.
Understandhow Azure Front Door works.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources