Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Application Gateway for Containers?
Article
2025-01-14
3 contributors
In this article
Application Gateway for Containers is an application layer (layer 7)load balancingand dynamic traffic management product for workloads running in a Kubernetes cluster. It extends Azure's Application Load Balancing portfolio and is a new offering under the Application Gateway product family.
Application Gateway for Containers is the evolution of theApplication Gateway Ingress Controller (AGIC), aKubernetesapplication that enables Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) customers to use Azure's native Application Gateway application load-balancer. In its current form, AGIC monitors a subset of Kubernetes Resources for changes and applies them to the Application Gateway, utilizing Azure Resource Manager (ARM).
How does it work?
Application Gateway for Containers is made up of three components:
Application Gateway for Containers resource
Frontends
Associations
The following dependencies are also referenced in an Application Gateway for Containers deployment:
Private IP address
Subnet Delegation
User-assigned Managed Identity
The architecture of Application Gateway for Containers is summarized in the following figure:

For details about how Application Gateway for Containers accepts incoming requests and routes them to a backend target, seeApplication Gateway for Containers components.
Features and benefits
Application Gateway for Containers offers some entirely new features at release, such as:
Traffic splitting / Weighted round robin
Mutual authentication to the backend target
Kubernetes support for Ingress and Gateway API
Flexibledeployment strategies
Increased performance, offering near real-time updates to add or remove pods, routes, and probes
Application Gateway for Containers offers an elastic and scalable ingress to AKS clusters and comprises a new data plane as well as control plane withnew set of ARM APIs, different from existing Application Gateway. These APIs are different from the current implementation of Application Gateway. Application Gateway for Containers is outside the AKS cluster data plane and is responsible for ingress. The service is managed by an ALB controller component that runs inside the AKS cluster and adheres to Kubernetes Gateway APIs.
Load balancing features
Application Gateway for Containers supports the following features for traffic management:
Automatic retries
Autoscaling
Availability zone resiliency
Custom and default health probes
ECDSA and RSA certificate support
gRPC
Header rewrite
HTTP/2
HTTPS traffic management:SSL terminationEnd to End SSL
SSL termination
End to End SSL
Ingress and Gateway API support
Layer 7 HTTP/HTTPS request forwarding based on prefix/exact match on:HostnamePathHeaderQuery stringMethodsPorts (80/443)
Hostname
Path
Header
Query string
Methods
Ports (80/443)
Mutual authentication (mTLS) to frontend, backend, or end-to-end
Server-sent event (SSE) support
Traffic splitting / weighted round robin
TLS policies
URL redirect
URL rewrite
WebSocket support
Deployment strategies
There are two deployment strategies for management of Application Gateway for Containers:
Bring your own (BYO) deployment:In this deployment strategy, deployment and lifecycle of the Application Gateway for Containers resource, Association resource, and Frontend resource is assumed via Azure portal, CLI, PowerShell, Terraform, etc. and referenced in configuration within Kubernetes.In Gateway API:Every time you wish to create a new Gateway resource in Kubernetes, a Frontend resource should be provisioned in Azure prior and referenced by the Gateway resource. Deletion of the Frontend resource is responsible by the Azure administrator and isn't deleted when the Gateway resource in Kubernetes is deleted.
In Gateway API:Every time you wish to create a new Gateway resource in Kubernetes, a Frontend resource should be provisioned in Azure prior and referenced by the Gateway resource. Deletion of the Frontend resource is responsible by the Azure administrator and isn't deleted when the Gateway resource in Kubernetes is deleted.
Managed by ALB Controller:In this deployment strategy, ALB Controller deployed in Kubernetes is responsible for the lifecycle of the Application Gateway for Containers resource and its sub resources. ALB Controller creates the Application Gateway for Containers resource when an ApplicationLoadBalancer custom resource is defined on the cluster and its lifecycle is based on the lifecycle of the custom resource.In Gateway API:Every time a Gateway resource is created referencing the ApplicationLoadBalancer resource, ALB Controller provisions a new Frontend resource and manage its lifecycle based on the lifecycle of the Gateway resource.
In Gateway API:Every time a Gateway resource is created referencing the ApplicationLoadBalancer resource, ALB Controller provisions a new Frontend resource and manage its lifecycle based on the lifecycle of the Gateway resource.
Supported regions
Application Gateway for Containers is currently offered in the following regions:
Australia East
Canada Central
Central India
Central US
East Asia
East US
East US2
France Central
Germany West Central
Korea Central
North Central US
North Europe
Norway East
South Central US
Southeast Asia
Switzerland North
UAE North
UK South
West US
West Europe
Implementation of Gateway API
ALB Controller implements versionv1of theGateway API.
Implementation of Ingress API
ALB Controller implements support forIngress.
Report issues and provide feedback
For feedback, post a new idea infeedback.azure.comFor issues, raise a support request via the Azure portal on your Application Gateway for Containers resource.
Pricing and SLA
For Application Gateway for Containers pricing information, seeApplication Gateway pricing.
For Application Gateway for Containers SLA information, seeService Level Agreements (SLA) for Online Services.
What's new
To learn what's new with Application Gateway for Containers, seeAzure updates.
Next steps
Concepts: Application Gateway for Containers components
Quickstart: Deploy Application Gateway for Containers ALB Controller
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources