Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Famsv6 sizes series
Article
2024-11-21
2 contributors
In this article
The Famsv6-series utilizes AMD's fourth Generation EPYC™ 9004 processor that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.7 GHz with up to 320 MB L3 cache. The Famsv6 VM series comes without Simultaneous Multithreading (SMT), meaning a vCPU is now mapped to a full physical core, allowing software processes to run on dedicated and uncontested resources. These new full core VMs suit workloads demanding the highest CPU performance. Famsv6-series offers up to 64 full core vCPUs and 512 GiB of RAM. This series is optimized for scientific simulations, financial and risk analysis, gaming, rendering and other workloads able to take advantage of the exceptional performance. Customers running software licensed on per-vCPU basis can use these VMs to optimize compute costs within their infrastructure.
Host specifications
Feature support
Premium Storage: SupportedPremium Storage caching: SupportedMemory Preserving Updates: SupportedGeneration 2 VMs: SupportedGeneration 1 VMs: Not SupportedAccelerated Networking: SupportedEphemeral OS Disk: Not SupportedNested Virtualization: Supported
Sizes in series
Basics
Local storage
Remote storage
Network
Accelerators
vCPUs (Qty.) and Memory for each size
Check vCPU quotas
Local (temp) storage info for each size
Note
No local storage present in this series.
For frequently asked questions, seeAzure VM sizes with no local temp disk.
Remote (uncached) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Network interface info for each size
Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Expected network bandwidth is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines.
To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Accelerator (GPUs, FPGAs, etc.) info for each size
Note
No accelerators are present in this series.
Note
This VM series will only work on OS images that support NVMe. If your current OS image doesn't have NVMe support, you’ll see an error message.NVMesupport is available on the most popular OS images, and we're continuously improving OS image compatibility.
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources