Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Container Apps hosting of Azure Functions
Article
2025-02-24
8 contributors
In this article
Azure Functions provides integrated support for developing, deploying, and managing containerized function apps onAzure Container Apps. Use Azure Container Apps to host your function app containers when you need to run your event-driven functions in Azure in the same environment as other microservices, APIs, websites, workflows, or any container hosted programs. Container Apps hosting lets you run your functions in a fully managed, Kubernetes-based environment with built-in support for open-source monitoring, mTLS, Dapr, and Kubernetes Event-driven Autoscaling (KEDA).
You can write your function code in anylanguage stack supported by Functions. You can use the same Functions triggers and bindings with event-driven scaling. You can also use existing Functions client tools and the Azure portal to create containers, deploy function app containers to Container Apps, and configure continuous deployment.
Container Apps integration also means that network and observability configurations, which are defined at the Container App environment level, apply to your function app as they do to all microservices running in a Container Apps environment. You also get the other cloud-native capabilities of Container Apps, including KEDA, Dapr, Envoy. You can still use Application Insights to monitor your functions executions, and your function app can access the same virtual networking resources provided by the environment.
For a general overview of container hosting options for Azure Functions, seeLinux container support in Azure Functions.
Hosting and workload profiles
There are two primary hosting plans for Container Apps, a serverlessConsumption planand aDedicated plan, which uses workload profiles to better control your deployment resources. A workload profile determines the amount of compute and memory resources available to container apps deployed in an environment. These profiles are configured to fit the different needs of your applications.
The Consumption workload profile is the default profile added to every Workload profiles environment type. You can add Dedicated workload profiles to your environment as you create an environment or after it's created. To learn more about workload profiles, seeWorkload profiles in Azure Container Apps.
Container Apps hosting of containerized function apps is supported in allregions that support Container Apps.
If your app doesn't have specific hardware requirements, you can run your environment either in a Consumption plan or in a Dedicated plan using the default Consumption workload profile. When running functions on Container Apps, you're charged only for the Container Apps usage. For more information, see theAzure Container Apps pricing page.
Azure Functions on Azure Container Apps supports GPU-enabled hosting in the Dedicated plan with workload profiles.
To learn how to create and deploy a function app container to Container Apps in the default Consumption plan, seeCreate your first containerized functions on Azure Container Apps.
To learn how to create a Container Apps environment with workload profiles and deploy a function app container to a specific workload, seeContainer Apps workload profiles.
Functions in containers
To use Container Apps hosting, your code must run on a function app in a Linux container that you create and maintain. Functions maintains a set oflanguage-specific base imagesthat you can use to generate your containerized function apps.
When you create a code project usingAzure Functions Core Toolsand include the--dockeroption, Core Tools generates the Dockerfile with the correct base image, which you can use as a starting point when creating your container.
--docker
Important
When creating your own containers, you're required to keep the base image of your container updated to the latest supported base image. Supported base images for Azure Functions are language-specific and are found in theAzure Functions base image repos.
The Functions team is committed to publishing monthly updates for these base images. Regular updates include the latest minor version updates and security fixes for both the Functions runtime and languages. You should regularly update your container from the latest base image and redeploy the updated version of your container. For more information, seeMaintaining custom containers.
When you make changes to your functions code, you must rebuild and republish your container image. For more information, seeUpdate an image in the registry.
Deployment options
Azure Functions currently supports the following methods of deploying a containerized function app to Azure Container Apps:
Apache Maven
ARM templates
Azure CLI
Azure Developer CLI (azd)
Azure Functions Core Tools
Azure Pipeline tasks
Azure portal
Bicep files
GitHub Actions
Visual Studio Code
You can continuously deploy your containerized apps from source code using eitherAzure PipelinesorGitHub Actions. The continuous deployment feature of Functions isn't currently supported when deploying to Container Apps.
Managed identity authorization
For the best security, you should connect to remote services using Microsoft Entra authentication and managed identity authorization. You can use managed identities for these connections:
Default storage account (AzureWebJobsStorage)
AzureWebJobsStorage
Azure Container Registry
When running in Container Apps, you can use Microsoft Entra ID with managed identities for all binding extensions that support managed identities. Currently, only these binding extensions support event-driven scaling when using managed identity authentication:
Azure Event Hubs
Azure Queue Storage
Azure Service Bus
For other bindings, use fixed replicas when using managed identity authentication. For more information, see theFunctions developer guide.
Virtual network integration
When you host your function apps in a Container Apps environment, your functions are able to take advantage of both internally and externally accessible virtual networks. To learn more about environment networks, seeNetworking in Azure Container Apps environment.
Event-driven scaling
All Functions triggers can be used in your containerized function app. However, only these triggers can dynamically scale (from zero instances) based on received events when running in a Container Apps environment:
Azure Event Grid
Azure Event Hubs
Azure Blob Storage (Event Grid based)
Azure Queue Storage
Azure Service Bus
Durable Functions (MSSQL storage provider)
HTTP
Kafka
Timer
Azure Cosmos DB
Azure Functions on Container Apps is designed to configure the scale parameters and rules as per the event target. You don't need to worry about configuring the KEDA scaled objects. You can still set minimum and maximum replica count when creating or modifying your function app. The following Azure CLI command sets the minimum and maximum replica count when creating a new function app in a Container Apps environment from an Azure Container Registry:
az functionapp create --name <APP_NAME> --resource-group <MY_RESOURCE_GROUP> --max-replicas 15 --min-replicas 1 --storage-account <STORAGE_NAME> --environment MyContainerappEnvironment --image <LOGIN_SERVER>/azurefunctionsimage:v1 --registry-username <USERNAME> --registry-password <SECURE_PASSWORD> --registry-server <LOGIN_SERVER>
az functionapp create --name <APP_NAME> --resource-group <MY_RESOURCE_GROUP> --max-replicas 15 --min-replicas 1 --storage-account <STORAGE_NAME> --environment MyContainerappEnvironment --image <LOGIN_SERVER>/azurefunctionsimage:v1 --registry-username <USERNAME> --registry-password <SECURE_PASSWORD> --registry-server <LOGIN_SERVER>
The following command sets the same minimum and maximum replica count on an existing function app:
az functionapp config container set --name <APP_NAME> --resource-group <MY_RESOURCE_GROUP> --max-replicas 15 --min-replicas 1
az functionapp config container set --name <APP_NAME> --resource-group <MY_RESOURCE_GROUP> --max-replicas 15 --min-replicas 1
Managed resource groups
Azure Functions on Container Apps runs your containerized function app resources in specially managed resource groups. These managed resource groups help protect the consistency of your apps by preventing unintended or unauthorized modification or deletion of resources in the managed group, even by service principals.
A managed resource group is created for you the first time you create function app resources in a Container Apps environment. Container Apps resources required by your containerized function app run in this managed resource group. Any other function apps that you create in the same environment use this existing group.
A managed resource group gets removed automatically after all function app container resources are removed from the environment. While the managed resource group is visible, any attempts to modify or remove the managed resource group result in an error. To remove a managed resource group from an environment, remove all of the function app container resources and it gets removed for you.
If you run into any issues with these managed resource groups, you should contact support.
Application logging
You can monitor your containerized function app hosted in Container Apps using Azure Monitor Application Insights in the same way you do with apps hosted by Azure Functions. For more information, seeMonitor Azure Functions.
For bindings that support event-driven scaling, scale events are logged asFunctionsScalerInfoandFunctionsScalerErrorevents in your Log Analytics workspace. For more information, seeApplication Logging in Azure Container Apps.
FunctionsScalerInfo
FunctionsScalerError
Considerations for Container Apps hosting
Keep in mind the following considerations when deploying your function app containers to Container Apps:
These limitations apply to Kafka triggers:The protocol value ofsslisn't supported when hosted on Container Apps. Use adifferent protocol value.For a Kafka trigger to dynamically scale when connected to Event Hubs, theusernameproperty must resolve to an application setting that contains the actual username value. When the default$ConnectionStringvalue is used, the Kafka trigger isn't able to cause the app to scale dynamically.
The protocol value ofsslisn't supported when hosted on Container Apps. Use adifferent protocol value.
ssl
For a Kafka trigger to dynamically scale when connected to Event Hubs, theusernameproperty must resolve to an application setting that contains the actual username value. When the default$ConnectionStringvalue is used, the Kafka trigger isn't able to cause the app to scale dynamically.
username
$ConnectionString
For the built-in Container Appspolicy definitions, currently only environment-level policies apply to Azure Functions containers.
You can use managed identities for these connections:Deployment from an Azure Container RegistryTriggers and bindingsRequired host storage connection
Deployment from an Azure Container Registry
Triggers and bindings
Required host storage connection
By default, a containerized function app monitors port 80 for incoming requests. If your app must use a different port, use theWEBSITES_PORTapplication settingto change this default port.
WEBSITES_PORT
You aren't currently able to use built-in continuous deployment features when hosting on Container Apps. You must instead deploy from source code using eitherAzure PipelinesorGitHub Actions.
You currently can't move a Container Apps hosted function app deployment between resource groups or between subscriptions. Instead, you would have to recreate the existing containerized app deployment in a new resource group, subscription, or region.
When using Container Apps, you don't have direct access to the lower-level Kubernetes APIs.
Thecontainerappextension conflicts with theappservice-kubeextension in Azure CLI. If you have previously published apps to Azure Arc, runaz extension listand make sure thatappservice-kubeisn't installed. If it is, you can remove it by runningaz extension remove -n appservice-kube.
containerapp
appservice-kube
az extension list
appservice-kube
az extension remove -n appservice-kube
Related articles
Hosting and scale
Create your first containerized functions on Container Apps
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources