Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is confidential computing?
Article
2024-08-15
16 contributors
In this article
Confidential computing is an industry term established by theConfidential Computing Consortium (CCC), part of the Linux Foundation. It defines it as:
Confidential Computing protects data in use by performing computation in a hardware-based, attested Trusted Execution Environment.
These secure and isolated environments prevent unauthorized access or modification of applications and data while they are in use, thereby increasing the security level of organizations that manage sensitive and regulated data.
Microsoft is one of the founding members of the CCC and provides Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) in Azure based on this CCC definition.
Reducing the attack surface

Azure already encrypts data at rest and in transit. Confidential computing helps protect data in use, including cryptographic keys. Azure confidential computing helps customers prevent unauthorized access to data in use, including from the cloud operator, by processing data in a hardware-based and attested Trusted Execution Environment (TEE).  When Azure confidential computing is enabled and properly configured, Microsoft isn't able to access unencrypted customer data.
The threat model aims to reduce trust or remove the ability for a cloud provider operator or other actors in the tenant's domain accessing code and data while it's being executed. This is achieved in Azure using a hardware root of trust not controlled by the cloud provider, which is designed to ensure unauthorized access or modification of the environment.
When used with data encryption at rest and in transit, confidential computing extends data protections further to protect data whilst it's in use. This is beneficial for organizations seeking further protections for sensitive data and applications hosted in cloud environments.
Industry partnership
TheConfidential Computing Consortium (CCC)brings together hardware vendors, cloud providers, and software developers to accelerate the adoption of Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) technologies and standards. Microsoft helped to co-found it in 2019, and has chaired both the governing body and the Technical Advisory Council.
Next steps
Exploreofferingsspanning Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and developer tools to support your journey to confidentiality.
Overview of Azure Confidential Computing
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources