Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Introduction to Azure Arc landing zone accelerator for hybrid and multicloud
Article
2023-03-15
19 contributors
In this article
Enterprises are currently building and running applications across various ecosystems on-premises, in multiple public clouds, and on the edge. When you're working in these distributed environments, it's critical that you find a way to ensure compliance and manage servers, applications, and data at scale while still maintaining agility.
Azure landing zonesprovides:
A specific architectural approach.
Reference architecture.
Set of reference implementations that help you prepare your landing zones for mission-critical technology platforms and supported workloads.

For more information on the design areas labeled A-I in the visual, seeenvironment design areas.
Azure landing zones were designed with hybrid and multicloud in mind. To support hybrid and multicloud, the reference architecture requires two additions:
Hybrid and multicloud connectivity:Understand key network design considerations and recommendations for working with Azure Arc.
Unified operations:Include Azure Arc-enabled resources to extend your governance and operations support with consistent tooling.
Why hybrid?
As organizations adopt modern cloud services and the associated benefits, periods of running services parallel alongside the legacy on-premises infrastructure are inevitable. As your organization further evaluates cloud services or as business requirements dictate, your team might choose to run more than one public cloud service. Operating a distributed heterogeneous estate requires simplified, consolidated management and governance to reduce operational impact.
Use landing zone concepts introduced as part of the Cloud Adoption Framework guidance to establish patterns for building hybrid architectures and introducing standards for connectivity, governance, and monitoring. This work helps when your strategic intent is to simplify and combine the infrastructure and services following migration projects. Setting standards for management processes and tools removes the need to retrofit workloads after you move them into Azure.
Prerequisites
It's beneficial to have familiarity with the Azure landing zones. For more information, see the Azure landing zonesoverviewand Azure landing zonesimplementation guidance.

Azure provides various management tools to help you monitor and govern infrastructure and applications at scale. When implementing a hybrid landing zone, be sure to extend the Azure tools to control infrastructure and applications outside of Azure. This approach creates a single management plane and a single view of your entire hybrid estate, which makes monitoring and management at scale as straightforward as possible.
Azure Arc-enabled servers design guidelines
Azure Arcsimplifies governance and management by providing a consistent multicloud and on-premises management platform. Azure Arc lets you manage your entire environment with a single pane of glass by projecting your existing resources intoAzure Resource Manager.
Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes design guidelines
The design guidelines provide recommendations for the critical decisions that drive the design of the Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure landing zone in a hybrid multicloud environment. Consider the following critical design areas for your Azure landing zone implementation when working with Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes:
Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance design guidelines
The design guidelines provide recommendations for critical decisions that drive the design of the Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure landing zone in a hybrid multicloud environment. Consider the following critical design areas for your Azure landing zone implementation, when working with Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance:
Next steps
For more information about your hybrid and multicloud cloud journey, review the following resources:
Understand how to design theright access controls to secure hybrid environments.
Review theNetwork topology and connectivity for Azure Arc-enabled serversrequirements.
Understand how tomanage hybrid and multicloud environments.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources