Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
SQL warehouse types
Article
2024-11-25
2 contributors
In this article
Databricks SQL supports serverless, pro, and classic types. This article outlines the features available for each type and compares performance and features.
Performance capabilities by type
Each SQL warehouse type has different performance capabilities. The following table shows the performance features supported by each SQL warehouse type.
The following list describes each performance feature:
Photon: The built-in vectorized query engine on Databricks. It makes your existing SQL and DataFrame API calls faster and reduces your total cost per workload.
Photon: The built-in vectorized query engine on Databricks. It makes your existing SQL and DataFrame API calls faster and reduces your total cost per workload.
Predictive IO: A suite of features for speeding up selective scan operations in SQL queries. Predictive IO can provide a wide range of speedups.
Predictive IO: A suite of features for speeding up selective scan operations in SQL queries. Predictive IO can provide a wide range of speedups.
Intelligent workload management (IWM): A set of features that enhances Databricks SQL Serverless’s ability to process large numbers of queries quickly and cost-effectively. Using AI-powered prediction and dynamic management techniques, IWM works to verify that workloads have the right amount of resources quickly. The key difference lies in the AI capabilities in Databricks SQL to respond dynamically to workload demands rather than using static thresholds.NoteFor pricing for each warehouse type and a detailed feature comparison, seeDatabricks SQL. To learn about the latest Databricks SQL features, seeDatabricks SQL release notes.
Intelligent workload management (IWM): A set of features that enhances Databricks SQL Serverless’s ability to process large numbers of queries quickly and cost-effectively. Using AI-powered prediction and dynamic management techniques, IWM works to verify that workloads have the right amount of resources quickly. The key difference lies in the AI capabilities in Databricks SQL to respond dynamically to workload demands rather than using static thresholds.
Note
For pricing for each warehouse type and a detailed feature comparison, seeDatabricks SQL. To learn about the latest Databricks SQL features, seeDatabricks SQL release notes.
Performance differences between SQL warehouse types
Each SQL warehouse type has different performance characteristics.
Serverless SQL warehouses
Using the Azure Databricksserverless architecture, a serverless SQL warehouse supports all of the performance features of Databricks SQL. With a serverless SQL warehouse and its performance features, you get:
Rapid startup time (typically between 2 and 6 seconds).
Rapid upscaling to acquire more compute when needed for maintaining low latency.
Query admittance is closer to the hardware’s limitation than the virtual machine.
Quick downscaling to minimize costs when demand is low, providing consistent performance with optimized costs and resources.
Choose a serverless SQL warehouse for the best startup performance, the most efficient IO, smarter handling of query demand that varies greatly over time, and rapid autoscaling when query queuing occurs. SeeServerless autoscaling and query queuing.
A serverless SQL warehouse performs well with these types of workloads:
ETL
Business intelligence
Exploratory analysis
Important
SQL warehouses do not supportcredential passthrough. Databricks recommends using Unity Catalog for data governance. SeeWhat is Unity Catalog?.
Pro SQL warehouses
A pro SQL warehouse supports Photon and Predictive IO, but does not support Intelligent Workload Management. With a pro SQL warehouse (unlike a serverless SQL warehouse), the compute layer exists in your your Azure subscription account rather than in your Azure Databricks account. Without Intelligent Workload Management, warehouses are less responsive to query demand that varies greatly over time and cannot autoscale as rapidly as a serverless SQL warehouse. A pro SQL warehouse takes several minutes to start up (typically approximately 4 minutes) and scales up and down with less responsiveness than a serverless SQL warehouse. SeeQueueing and autoscaling for pro and classic SQL warehouses.
Use a pro SQL warehouse when:
Serverless SQL warehouses are not available in a region.
You have custom-defined networking and want to connect to databases in your network in the cloud or on-premises for federation or a hybrid-type architecture. For example, use a pro SQL warehouse if you want to put other services into your network such as an event bus or databases, or you want to connect your network to your on-premises network.
Classic SQL warehouses
A classic SQL warehouse supports Photon but does not support Predictive IO or Intelligent Workload Management. With a classic SQL warehouse (unlike a serverless SQL warehouse), the compute layer exists in your Azure subscription account rather than in your Azure Databricks account. Without support for Predictive IO or Intelligent Workload Management, a classic SQL warehouse provides only entry-level performance and less performance than a serverless or a pro SQL warehouse. A classic SQL warehouse also takes several minutes to start up (typically approximately 4 minutes) and scales up and down with less responsiveness than a serverless SQL warehouse. SeeQueueing and autoscaling for pro and classic SQL warehouses.
Use a classic SQL warehouse to run interactive queries for data exploration with entry-level performance and Databricks SQL features.
Note
For information about sizing your SQL warehouse and how it scales in response to query queuing, seeQueueing and autoscaling for pro and classic SQL warehouses.
What are the warehouse type defaults?
For workspaces inregionsthat support serverless SQL warehouses and satisfy therequirements:
Using the UI, the default SQL warehouse type is serverless.
Using the UI, the default SQL warehouse type is serverless.
Using theSQL warehouses APIwith default parameters, the default SQL warehouse type is classic. To use serverless, set theenable_serverless_computeparameter totrueandwarehouse_typetopro. If this workspace used the SQL warehouses API to create a warehouse between November 1, 2022 and May 19, 2023, and fits the requirements for serverless SQL warehouses, the default remains set totrue. To avoid ambiguity, especially for organizations with many workspaces, Databricks recommends always setting this field.
Using theSQL warehouses APIwith default parameters, the default SQL warehouse type is classic. To use serverless, set theenable_serverless_computeparameter totrueandwarehouse_typetopro. If this workspace used the SQL warehouses API to create a warehouse between November 1, 2022 and May 19, 2023, and fits the requirements for serverless SQL warehouses, the default remains set totrue. To avoid ambiguity, especially for organizations with many workspaces, Databricks recommends always setting this field.
enable_serverless_compute
true
warehouse_type
pro
true
If the workspace uses alegacy external Hive metastore, serverless SQL warehouses are not supported. The default SQL warehouse type is the same as if serverless compute were disabled, which is pro in the UI and classic using the API. Also, contact your Azure Databricks account team to learn more about Unity Catalog or other options.
If the workspace uses alegacy external Hive metastore, serverless SQL warehouses are not supported. The default SQL warehouse type is the same as if serverless compute were disabled, which is pro in the UI and classic using the API. Also, contact your Azure Databricks account team to learn more about Unity Catalog or other options.
For workspaces that do not support serverless SQL warehouses:
Using the UI, the default SQL warehouse type is pro.
Using theSQL warehouses APIwith default parameters, the default SQL warehouse type is classic.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources