Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Integrate your app with an Azure virtual network
Article
2025-03-14
10 contributors
In this article

Note
Starting June 1, 2024, newly created App Service apps can generate a unique default host name that uses the naming convention<app-name>-<random-hash>.<region>.azurewebsites.net. For example:myapp-ds27dh7271aah175.westus-01.azurewebsites.net. Existing app names remain unchanged.
<app-name>-<random-hash>.<region>.azurewebsites.net
myapp-ds27dh7271aah175.westus-01.azurewebsites.net
For more information, see theblog post about creating a web app with a unique default host name.
This article describes the Azure App Service virtual network integration feature and how to set it up with apps inApp Service. WithAzure virtual networks, you can place many of your Azure resources in a non-internet-routable network. The App Service virtual network integration feature enables your apps to access resources in or through a virtual network.
Note
Information about Gateway-required virtual network integration hasmoved to a new location.
App Service has two variations:
The dedicated compute pricing tiers, which include the Basic, Standard, Premium, Premium v2, and Premium v3.
The App Service Environment, which deploys directly into your virtual network with dedicated supporting infrastructure and is using the Isolated v2 pricing tiers.
The virtual network integration feature is used in Azure App Service dedicated compute pricing tiers. If your app is in anApp Service Environment, it already integrates with a virtual network and doesn't require you to configure virtual network integration feature to reach resources in the same virtual network. For more information on all the networking features, seeApp Service networking features.
Virtual network integration gives your app access to resources in your virtual network, but it doesn't grant inbound private access to your app from the virtual network. Private site access refers to making an app accessible only from a private network, such as from within an Azure virtual network. Virtual network integration is used only to make outbound calls from your app into your virtual network. Refer toprivate endpointfor inbound private access.
The virtual network integration feature:
Requires a Basic, Standard, Premium, Premium v2, Premium v3, or Elastic Premium App Service pricing tier.
Supports TCP and UDP.
Works with App Service apps, function apps, and Logic apps.
There are some things that virtual network integration doesn't support, like:
Mounting a drive.
Windows Server Active Directory domain join.
NetBIOS.
Virtual network integration supports connecting to a virtual network in the same region. Using virtual network integration enables your app to access:
Resources in the virtual network you're integrated with.
Resources in virtual networks peered to the virtual network your app is integrated with including global peering connections.
Resources across Azure ExpressRoute connections.
Service endpoint-secured services.
Private endpoint-enabled services.
When you use virtual network integration, you can use the following Azure networking features:
Network security groups (NSGs): You can block outbound traffic with an NSG that you use on your integration subnet. The inbound rules don't apply because you can't use virtual network integration to provide inbound access to your app.
Route tables (UDRs): You can place a route table on the integration subnet to send outbound traffic where you want.
NAT gateway: You can useNAT gatewayto get a dedicated outbound IP and mitigate SNAT port exhaustion.
Learnhow to enable virtual network integration.
How virtual network integration works
Apps in App Service are hosted on worker roles. Virtual network integration works by mounting virtual interfaces to the worker roles with addresses in the delegated subnet. The virtual interfaces used aren't resources customers have direct access to. Because the from address is in your virtual network, it can access most things in or through your virtual network like a VM in your virtual network would.

When virtual network integration is enabled, your app makes outbound calls through your virtual network. The outbound addresses that are listed in the app properties portal are the addresses still used by your app. However, if your outbound call is to a virtual machine or private endpoint in the integration virtual network or peered virtual network, the outbound address is an address from the integration subnet. The private IP assigned to an instance is exposed via the environment variable, WEBSITE_PRIVATE_IP.
When all traffic routing is enabled, all outbound traffic is sent into your virtual network. If all traffic routing isn't enabled, only private traffic (RFC1918) and service endpoints configured on the integration subnet is sent into the virtual network. Outbound traffic to the internet is routed directly from the app.
The virtual network integration feature supports two virtual interfaces per worker. Two virtual interfaces per worker mean two virtual network integrations per App Service plan. In other words, an App Service plan can have virtual network integrations with up to two subnets/virtual networks. The apps in the same App Service plan can only use one of the virtual network integrations to a specific subnet, meaning an app can only have a single virtual network integration at a given time.
Subnet requirements
Virtual network integration depends on a dedicated subnet. When you create a subnet, the Azure subnet consumes five IPs from the start. One address is used from the integration subnet for each App Service plan instance. If you scale your app to four instances, then four addresses are used.
When you scale up/down in instance size, the amount of IP addresses used by the App Service plan is temporarily doubled while the scale operation completes. The new instances need to be fully operational before the existing instances are deprovisioned. The scale operation affects the real, available supported instances for a given subnet size. Platform upgrades need free IP addresses to ensure upgrades can happen without interruptions to outbound traffic. Finally, after scale up, down, or in operations complete, there might be a short period of time before IP addresses are released. In rare cases, this operation can be up to 12 hours and if you rapidly scale in/out or up/down, you need more IPs than the maximum scale.
Because subnet size can't be changed after assignment, use a subnet that's large enough to accommodate whatever scale your app might reach. You should also reserve IP addresses for platform upgrades. To avoid any issues with subnet capacity, we recommend allocating double the IPs of your planned maximum scale. A/26with 64 addresses cover the maximum scale of a single multitenant App Service plan. When you're creating subnets in Azure portal as part of integrating with the virtual network, a minimum size of/27is required. If the subnet already exists before integrating through the portal, you can use a/28subnet.
/26
/27
/28
With multi plan subnet join (MPSJ), you can join multiple App Service plans in to the same subnet. All App Service plans must be in the same subscription but the virtual network/subnet can be in a different subscription. Each instance from each App Service plan requires an IP address from the subnet and to use MPSJ a minimum size of/26subnet is required. If you plan to join many and/or large scale plans, you should plan for larger subnet ranges.
/26
Windows Containers specific limits
Windows Containers uses an extra IP address per app for each App Service plan instance, and you need to size the subnet accordingly. If you have, for example, 10 Windows Container App Service plan instances with four apps running, you need 50 IP addresses and extra addresses to support horizontal (in/out) scale.
Sample calculation:
For each App Service plan instance, you need:
4 Windows Container apps = 4 IP addresses
1 IP address per App Service plan instance
4 + 1 = 5 IP addresses
For 10 instances:
5 x 10 = 50 IP addresses per App Service plan
Since you have 1 App Service plan, 1 x 50 = 50 IP addresses.
You are in addition limited by the number of cores available in the worker tier used. Each core adds three networking units. The worker itself uses one unit and each virtual network connection uses one unit. The remaining units can be used for apps.
Sample calculation:
App Service plan instance with four apps running and using virtual network integration. The Apps are connected to two different subnets (virtual network connections). This configuration requires seven networking units (1 worker + 2 connections + 4 apps). The minimum size for running this configuration would be I2v2 (four cores x 3 units = 12 units).
With I1v2, you can run a maximum of four apps using the same (1) connection or 3 apps using 2 connections.
Permissions
You must have at least the following Role-based access control permissions on the subnet or at a higher level to configure virtual network integration through Azure portal, CLI or when setting thevirtualNetworkSubnetIdsite property directly:
virtualNetworkSubnetId
If the virtual network is in a different subscription than the app, you must ensure that the subscription with the virtual network is registered for theMicrosoft.Webresource provider. You can explicitly register the providerby following this documentation, but it also automatically registers when creating the first web app in a subscription.
Microsoft.Web
Routes
You can control what traffic goes through the virtual network integration. There are three types of routing to consider when you configure virtual network integration.Application routingdefines what traffic is routed from your app and into the virtual network.Configuration routingaffects operations that happen before or during startup of your app. Examples are container image pull andapp settings with Key Vault reference.Network routingis the ability to handle how both app and configuration traffic are routed from your virtual network and out.
Through application routing or configuration routing options, you can configure what traffic is sent through the virtual network integration. Traffic is only subject tonetwork routingif sent through the virtual network integration.
Application routing
Application routing applies to traffic that is sent from your app after it starts. Seeconfiguration routingfor traffic during startup. When you configure application routing, you can either route all traffic or only private traffic (also known asRFC1918traffic) into your virtual network. You configure this behavior through the outbound internet traffic setting. If outbound internet traffic routing is disabled, your app only routes private traffic into your virtual network. If you want to route all your outbound app traffic into your virtual network, make sure that outbound internet traffic is enabled.
Only traffic configured in application or configuration routing is subject to the NSGs and UDRs that are applied to your integration subnet.
When outbound internet traffic routing is enabled, the source address for your outbound traffic from your app is still one of the IP addresses that are listed in your app properties. If you route your traffic through a firewall or a NAT gateway, the source IP address originates from this service.
Learnhow to configure application routing.
Note
Outbound SMTP connectivity (port 25) is supported for App Service when the SMTP traffic is routed through the virtual network integration. The supportability is determined by a setting on the subscription where the virtual network is deployed. For virtual networks/subnets created before 1. August 2022 you need to initiate a temporary configuration change to the virtual network/subnet for the setting to be synchronized from the subscription. An example could be to add a temporary subnet, associate/dissociate an NSG temporarily or configure a service endpoint temporarily. For more information, seeTroubleshoot outbound SMTP connectivity problems in Azure.
Configuration routing
When you're using virtual network integration, you can configure how parts of the configuration traffic are managed. By default, configuration traffic goes directly over the public route, but for the mentioned individual components, you can actively configure it to be routed through the virtual network integration.
By default, Azure Functions uses acontent shareas the deployment source when scaling function apps in a Premium plan. You must configure an extra setting to guarantee traffic is routed to this content share through the virtual network integration. For more information, seehow to configure content share routing.
In addition to configuring the routing, you must also ensure that any firewall or Network Security Group configured on traffic from the subnet allow traffic to port 443 and 445.
When using custom containers, you can pull the container over the virtual network integration. To route the container pull traffic through the virtual network integration, you must ensure that the routing setting is configured. Learnhow to configure image pull routing.
App Service has built-in backup/restore, but if you want to back up to your own storage account, you can use the custom backup/restore feature. If you want to route the traffic to the storage account through the virtual network integration, you must configure the route setting. Database backup isn't supported over the virtual network integration.
App settings using Key Vault references attempt to get secrets over the public route. If the Key Vault is blocking public traffic and the app is using virtual network integration, an attempt is made to get the secrets through the virtual network integration.
Note
Configure SSL/TLS certificates from private Key Vaults is currently not supported.
Routing app settings
App Service has existing app settings to configure application and configuration routing. Site properties override the app settings if both exist. Site properties have the advantage of being auditable with Azure Policy and validated at the time of configuration. We recommend you to use site properties.
You can still use the existingWEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALLapp setting to configure application routing.
WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL
App settings also exist for some configuration routing options. These app settings are namedWEBSITE_CONTENTOVERVNETandWEBSITE_PULL_IMAGE_OVER_VNET.
WEBSITE_CONTENTOVERVNET
WEBSITE_PULL_IMAGE_OVER_VNET
Network routing
You can use route tables to route outbound traffic from your app without restriction. Common destinations can include firewall devices or gateways. You can also use anetwork security group (NSG)to block outbound traffic to resources in your virtual network or the internet. An NSG that you apply to your integration subnet is in effect regardless of any route tables applied to your integration subnet.
Route tables and network security groups only apply to traffic routed through the virtual network integration. Seeapplication routingandconfiguration routingfor details. Routes don't apply to replies from inbound app requests and inbound rules in an NSG don't apply to your app. Virtual network integration affects only outbound traffic from your app. To control inbound traffic to your app, use theaccess restrictionsfeature orprivate endpoints.
When configuring network security groups or route tables that applies to outbound traffic, you must make sure you consider your application dependencies. Application dependencies include endpoints that your app needs during runtime. Besides APIs and services the app is calling, these endpoints could also be derived endpoints like certificate revocation list (CRL) check endpoints and identity/authentication endpoint, for example Microsoft Entra ID. If you're usingcontinuous deployment in App Service, you might also need to allow endpoints depending on type and language.
Specifically forLinux continuous deployment, you need to alloworyx-cdn.microsoft.io:443. For Python you additionally need to allowfiles.pythonhosted.org,pypi.org.
oryx-cdn.microsoft.io:443
files.pythonhosted.org
pypi.org
Azure uses UDP port 30,000 to do network health checks. If you block this traffic, it will not directly impact your app, but it will be more difficult for Azure support to detect and troubleshoot network related issues.
The App Service private ports feature uses ports 20,000 to 30,000 on both TCP and UDP to route traffic between instances through the integrated network. The mentioned port range need to be open both inbound and outbound.
When you want to route outbound traffic on-premises, you can use a route table to send outbound traffic to your Azure ExpressRoute gateway. If you do route traffic to a gateway, set routes in the external network to send any replies back. Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routes also affect your app traffic. If you have BGP routes from something like an ExpressRoute gateway, your app outbound traffic is affected. Similar to user-defined routes, BGP routes affect traffic according to your routing scope setting.
Service endpoints
Virtual network integration enables you to reach Azure services that are secured with service endpoints. To access a service endpoint-secured service, follow these steps:
Configure virtual network integration with your web app to connect to a specific subnet for integration.
Go to the destination service and configure service endpoints against the integration subnet.
Private endpoints
If you want to make calls toprivate endpoints, make sure that your DNS lookups resolve to the private endpoint. You can enforce this behavior in one of the following ways:
Integrate with Azure DNS private zones. When your virtual network doesn't have a custom DNS server, the integration is done automatically when the zones are linked to the virtual network.
Manage the private endpoint in the DNS server used by your app. To manage the configuration, you must know the private endpoint IP address. Then point the endpoint you're trying to reach to that address by using an A record.
Configure your own DNS server to forward to Azure DNS private zones.
Azure DNS private zones
After your app integrates with your virtual network, it uses the same DNS server that your virtual network is configured with. If no custom DNS is specified, it uses Azure default DNS and any private zones linked to the virtual network.
Limitations
There are some limitations with using virtual network integration:
The feature requires an unused subnet that's an IPv4/28block or larger in an Azure Resource Manager virtual network. MPSJ requires a/26block or larger.
/28
/26
The app and the virtual network must be in the same region.
The integration virtual network can't have IPv6 address spaces defined.
The integration subnet can't haveservice endpoint policiesenabled.
You can't delete a virtual network with an integrated app. Remove the integration before you delete the virtual network.
You can't have more than two virtual network integrations per App Service plan. Multiple apps in the same App Service plan can use the same virtual network integration.
You can't change the subscription of an app or a plan while there's an app that's using virtual network integration.
App Service Logs to private storage accounts is currently not supported. We recommend using Diagnostics Logging and allowing Trusted Services for the storage account.
Access on-premises resources
No extra configuration is required for the virtual network integration feature to reach through your virtual network to on-premises resources. You simply need to connect your virtual network to on-premises resources by using ExpressRoute or a site-to-site VPN.
Peering
If you use peering with virtual network integration, you don't need to do any more configuration.
Manage virtual network integration
Connecting and disconnecting with a virtual network is at an app level. Operations that can affect virtual network integration across multiple apps are at the App Service plan level. From the app >Networking>VNet integrationportal, you can get details on your virtual network. You can see similar information at the App Service plan level in theApp Service plan>Networking>VNet integrationportal.
In the app view of your virtual network integration instance, you can disconnect your app from the virtual network and you can configure application routing. To disconnect your app from a virtual network, selectDisconnect. Your app is restarted when you disconnect from a virtual network. Disconnecting doesn't change your virtual network. The subnet isn't removed. If you then want to delete your virtual network, first disconnect your app from the virtual network.
The private IP assigned to the instance is exposed via the environment variable WEBSITE_PRIVATE_IP. Kudu console UI also shows the list of environment variables available to the web app. This IP is assigned from the address range of the integrated subnet. This IP is used by the web app to connect to the resources through the Azure virtual network.
Note
The value of WEBSITE_PRIVATE_IP is bound to change. However, it will be an IP within the address range of the integration subnet, so you'll need to allow access from the entire address range.
Pricing details
The virtual network integration feature has no extra charge for use beyond the App Service plan pricing tier charges.
Troubleshooting
The feature is easy to set up, but that doesn't mean your experience is problem free. If you encounter problems accessing your desired endpoint, there are various steps you can take depending on what you are observing. For more information, seevirtual network integration troubleshooting guide.
Note
Virtual network integration isn't supported for Docker Compose scenarios in App Service.
Access restrictions does not apply to traffic coming through a private endpoint.
Deleting the App Service plan or app before disconnecting the network integration
If you deleted the app or the App Service plan without disconnecting the virtual network integration first, you aren't able to do any update/delete operations on the virtual network or subnet that was used for the integration with the deleted resource. A subnet delegation 'Microsoft.Web/serverFarms' remains assigned to your subnet and prevents the update and delete operations.
In order to do update/delete the subnet or virtual network again, you need to re-create the virtual network integration, and then disconnect it:
Re-create the App Service plan and app (it's mandatory to use the exact same web app name as before).
Navigate toNetworkingon the app in Azure portal and configure the virtual network integration.
After the virtual network integration is configured, select the 'Disconnect' button.
Delete the App Service plan or app.
Update/Delete the subnet or virtual network.
If you still encounter issues with the virtual network integration after following these steps, contact Microsoft Support.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources