Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Subscriptions in Azure API Management
Article
2024-09-03
11 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: All API Management tiers
In Azure API Management,subscriptionsare the most common way for API consumers to access APIs published through an API Management instance. This article provides an overview of the concept.
Note
An API Management subscription is used specifically to call APIs through API Management using a subscription key. It's not the same as an Azure subscription.
What are subscriptions?
By publishing APIs through API Management, you can easily secure API access using subscription keys. Developers who need to consume the published APIs must include a valid subscription key in HTTP requests when calling those APIs. Without a valid subscription key, the calls are:
Rejected immediately by the API Management gateway.
Not forwarded to the back-end services.
To access APIs, developers need a subscription and a subscription key. Asubscriptionis a named container for a pair of subscription keys.
In addition,
Developers can get subscriptions without needing approval from API publishers.
API publishers can create subscriptions directly for API consumers.
Tip
API Management also supports other mechanisms for securing access to APIs, including the following examples:
OAuth2.0
Client certificates
Restrict caller IPs
Manage subscription keys
Regularly regenerating keys is a common security precaution. Like most Azure services requiring a subscription key, API Management generates keys in pairs. Each application using the service can switch fromkey Atokey Band regenerate key A with minimal disruption, and vice versa.
Setting specific keys instead of regenerating ones can be performed by invoking theAzure API Management Subscription - Create Or Update Azure REST API. Specifically, theproperties.primaryKeyand/orproperties.secondaryKeyneed to be set in the HTTP request body.
properties.primaryKey
properties.secondaryKey
Note
API Management doesn't provide built-in features to manage the lifecycle of subscription keys, such as setting expiration dates or automatically rotating keys. You can develop workflows to automate these processes using tools such as Azure PowerShell or the Azure SDKs.
To enforce time-limited access to APIs, API publishers may be able to use policies with subscription keys, or use a mechanism that provides built-in expiration such as token-based authentication.
Scope of subscriptions
Subscriptions can be associated with various scopes:product, all APIs, or an individual API.
Subscriptions for a product
Traditionally, subscriptions in API Management were associated with a singleproductscope. Developers:
Found the list of products on the developer portal.
Submitted subscription requests for the products they wanted to use.
Use the keys in those subscriptions (approved either automatically or by API publishers) to access all APIs in the product.
Currently, the developer portal only shows the product scope subscriptions under theUser Profilesection.

Subscriptions for all APIs or an individual API
You can also create keys that grant access to either:
A single API, or
All APIs within an API Management instance.
In these cases, you don't need to create a product and add APIs to it first.
All-access subscription
Each API Management instance comes with a built in all-access subscription that grants access to all APIs. This service-scoped subscription makes it straightforward for service owners to test and debug APIs within the test console.
Warning
The all-access subscription enables access to every API in the API Management instance and should only be used by authorized users. Never use this subscription for routine API access or embed the all-access subscription key in client apps.
Note
If you're using an API-scoped subscription, an all-APIs subscription, or the built-in all-access subscription, policies configured at the product scope aren't applied to requests from that subscription.
Standalone subscriptions
API Management also allowsstandalonesubscriptions, which aren't associated with a developer account. This feature proves useful in scenarios similar to several developers or teams sharing a subscription.
Creating a subscription without assigning an owner makes it a standalone subscription. To grant developers and the rest of your team access to the standalone subscription key, either:
Manually share the subscription key.
Use a custom system to make the subscription key available to your team.
Create and manage subscriptions in Azure portal
API publishers cancreate subscriptionsdirectly in the Azure portal.
When created in the portal, a subscription is in theActivestate, meaning a subscriber can call an associated API using a valid subscription key. You can change the state of the subscription as needed. For example, you can suspend, cancel, or delete any subscription (including the built-in all-access subscription) to prevent API access.
Use a subscription key
A subscriber can use an API Management subscription key in one of two ways:
Add theOcp-Apim-Subscription-KeyHTTP header to the request, passing the value of a valid subscription key.
Add theOcp-Apim-Subscription-KeyHTTP header to the request, passing the value of a valid subscription key.
Include thesubscription-keyquery parameter and a valid value in the URL. The query parameter is checked only if the header isn't present.
Include thesubscription-keyquery parameter and a valid value in the URL. The query parameter is checked only if the header isn't present.
Tip
Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Keyis the default name of the subscription key header, andsubscription-keyis the default name of the query parameter. If desired, you may modify these names in the settings for each API. For example, in the portal, update these names on theSettingstab of an API.
Note
When included in a request header or query parameter, the subscription key by default is passed to the backend and may be exposed in backend monitoring logs or other systems. If this is considered sensitive data, you can configure a policy at the end of theinboundsection to remove the subscription key header (set-header) or query parameter (set-query-parameter).
inbound
set-header
set-query-parameter
Enable or disable subscription requirement for API or product access
By default when you create an API, a subscription key is required for API access. Similarly, when you create a product, by default a subscription key is required to access any API that's added to the product. Under certain scenarios, an API publisher might want to publish a product or a particular API to the public without the requirement of subscriptions. While a publisher could choose to enable unsecured (anonymous) access to certain APIs, configuring another mechanism to secure client access is recommended.
Caution
Use care when configuring a product or an API that doesn't require a subscription. This configuration may be overly permissive and may make an API more vulnerable to certainAPI security threats.
Note
Open products have theRequires subscriptionsetting disabled, which means that users don't need to subscribe to it. For this reason, open products aren't displayed on theProductspage of the developer portal.
You can disable the subscription requirement at the time you create an API or product, or at a later date.
To disable the subscription requirement using the portal:
Disable requirement for product- On theSettingspage of the product, disableRequires subscription
Disable requirement for API- In theSettingspage of the API, disableSubscription required.
After the subscription requirement is disabled, the selected API or APIs can be accessed without a subscription key.
How API Management handles requests with or without subscription keys
API request with a subscription key
When API Management receives an API request from a client with a subscription key, it handles the request according to these rules:
Check first if it's a valid key associated with an active subscription, either:A subscription scoped to the APIA subscription scoped to a product that's assigned to the APIA subscription scoped to all APIsThe service-scoped subscription (built-in all access subscription)If a valid key for an active subscription at an appropriate scope is provided, access is allowed. Policies are applied depending on the configuration of the policy definition at that scope.
Check first if it's a valid key associated with an active subscription, either:
A subscription scoped to the API
A subscription scoped to a product that's assigned to the API
A subscription scoped to all APIs
The service-scoped subscription (built-in all access subscription)
If a valid key for an active subscription at an appropriate scope is provided, access is allowed. Policies are applied depending on the configuration of the policy definition at that scope.
If the key isn't valid but a product exists that includes the API but doesn't require a subscription (anopenproduct), ignore the key and handle as an API request without a subscription key (see below).
If the key isn't valid but a product exists that includes the API but doesn't require a subscription (anopenproduct), ignore the key and handle as an API request without a subscription key (see below).
Otherwise, access is denied (401 Access denied error).
Otherwise, access is denied (401 Access denied error).
API request without a subscription key
When API Management receives an API request from a client without a subscription key, it handles the request according to these rules:
Check first for the existence of a product that includes the API but doesn't require a subscription (anopenproduct). If the open product exists, handle the request in the context of the APIs, policies, and access rules configured for the open product. An API can be associated with at most one open product.
If an open product including the API isn't found, check whether the API requires a subscription. If a subscription isn't required, handle the request in the context of that API and operation.
If no configured product or API is found, then access is denied (401 Access denied error).
Summary table
The following table summarizes how the gateway handles API requests with or without subscription keys in different scenarios. Configurations that could potentially enable unintended, anonymous API access are noted.
1An open product exists that's associated with the API.
Considerations
API access in a product context is the same, whether the product is published or not. Unpublishing the product hides it from the developer portal, but it doesn’t invalidate new or existing subscription keys.
If an API doesn't require subscription authentication, any API request that includes a subscription key is treated the same as a request without a subscription key. The subscription key is ignored.
API access "context" means the policies and access controls that are applied at a particular scope (for example, API or product).
Related content
Get more information on API Management:
Learn how API Managementpoliciesget applied at different scopes.
Learn otherconceptsin API Management.
Follow ourtutorialsto learn more about API Management.
Check ourFAQ pagefor common questions.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources