Microsoft Entra identity management and access management for AWS
This article provides AWS identity architects, administrators, and security analysts with immediate insights and detailed guidance for deploying Microsoft Entra identity and access solutions for AWS. You can configure and test these Microsoft security solutions without affecting your existing identity providers and AWS account users until you're ready to switch over.
Architecture
AWS creates a separateIdentity and Access Management (IAM) storefor each account it creates. The following diagram shows the standard setup for an AWS environment with a single AWS account:

Theroot userfully controls the AWS account, and delegates access to other identities. The AWS IAMprincipalprovides a unique identity for each role and user that needs to access the AWS account. AWS IAM can protect each root, principal, and user account with a complex password and basic MFA.
Many organizations need more than one AWS account, resulting inidentity silosthat are complex to manage:

To allow centralized identity management and avoid having to manage multiple identities and passwords, most organizations want to use single sign-on for platform resources. Some AWS customers rely on server-based Microsoft Active Directory for SSO integration. Other customers invest in third-party solutions to synchronize or federate their identities and provide SSO.
Microsoft Entra ID provides centralized identity management with strong SSO authentication. Almost any app or platform that follows common web authentication standards, including AWS, can use Microsoft Entra ID for identity and access management.
Many organizations already use Microsoft Entra ID to assign and protect Microsoft 365 or hybrid cloud identities. Employees use their Microsoft Entra identities to access email, files, instant messaging, cloud applications, and on-premises resources. You can quickly and easily integrate Microsoft Entra ID with your AWS accounts to let administrators and developers sign in to your AWS environments with their existing identities.
The following diagram shows how Microsoft Entra ID can integrate with multiple AWS accounts to provide centralized identity and access management:

Microsoft Entra ID offers several capabilities for direct integration with AWS:
SSO across legacy, traditional, and modern authentication solutions.
MFA, including integration with several third-party solutions fromMicrosoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA)partners.
PowerfulConditional Accessfeatures for strong authentication and strict governance. Microsoft Entra ID uses Conditional Access policies and risk-based assessments to authenticate and authorize user access to the AWS Management Console and AWS resources.
Large-scale threat detection and automated response. Microsoft Entra ID processes over 30 billion authentication requests per day, along with trillions of signals about threats worldwide.
Privileged Access Management (PAM)to enableJust-In-Time (JIT) provisioningto specific resources.

Advanced Microsoft Entra identity management with AWS accounts
Other advanced Microsoft Entra features can provide extra layers of control for the most sensitive AWS accounts. Microsoft Entra ID P2 licenses include these advanced features:
Privileged Identity Management (PIM)to provide advanced controls for all delegated roles within Azure and Microsoft 365. For example, instead of a user administrator being statically assigned the User Administrator role, they have permission to activate the role on demand. This permission deactivates after a set time limit (one hour, for example). PIM logs all activations and has other controls that can further restrict the activation capabilities. PIM further protects your identity architecture by ensuring extra layers of governance and protection before privileged users can make changes.You can expandPIM to any delegated permission by controlling access to custom groups, such as the ones you created for access to AWS roles. For more information about deploying PIM, seePlan a Privileged Identity Management deployment.
Privileged Identity Management (PIM)to provide advanced controls for all delegated roles within Azure and Microsoft 365. For example, instead of a user administrator being statically assigned the User Administrator role, they have permission to activate the role on demand. This permission deactivates after a set time limit (one hour, for example). PIM logs all activations and has other controls that can further restrict the activation capabilities. PIM further protects your identity architecture by ensuring extra layers of governance and protection before privileged users can make changes.
You can expandPIM to any delegated permission by controlling access to custom groups, such as the ones you created for access to AWS roles. For more information about deploying PIM, seePlan a Privileged Identity Management deployment.
Advanced Identity Protectionincreases Microsoft Entra sign-in security by monitoring user or session risk. User risk defines the potential of the credentials being compromised, such as the user ID and password appearing in a publicly released breach list. Session risk determines whether the sign-in activity comes from a risky location, IP address, or other indicator of compromise. Both detection types draw on Microsoft's comprehensive threat intelligence capabilities.For more information about Advanced Identity Protection, see theMicrosoft Entra ID Protection security overview.
Advanced Identity Protectionincreases Microsoft Entra sign-in security by monitoring user or session risk. User risk defines the potential of the credentials being compromised, such as the user ID and password appearing in a publicly released breach list. Session risk determines whether the sign-in activity comes from a risky location, IP address, or other indicator of compromise. Both detection types draw on Microsoft's comprehensive threat intelligence capabilities.
For more information about Advanced Identity Protection, see theMicrosoft Entra ID Protection security overview.
Microsoft Defender for Identityprotects identities and services running on Active Directory domain controllers by monitoring all activity and threat signals. Defender for Identity identifies threats based on real-life experience from investigations of customer breaches. Defender for Identity monitors user behavior and recommends attack surface reductions to prevent advanced attacks like reconnaissance, lateral movement, and domain dominance.For more information about Defender for Identity, seeWhat is Microsoft Defender for Identity.
Microsoft Defender for Identityprotects identities and services running on Active Directory domain controllers by monitoring all activity and threat signals. Defender for Identity identifies threats based on real-life experience from investigations of customer breaches. Defender for Identity monitors user behavior and recommends attack surface reductions to prevent advanced attacks like reconnaissance, lateral movement, and domain dominance.
For more information about Defender for Identity, seeWhat is Microsoft Defender for Identity.
Scenario details
Amazon Web Services (AWS) accounts that support critical workloads and highly sensitive information need strong identity protection and access control. AWS identity management is enhanced when combined with Microsoft Entra ID. Microsoft Entra ID is a cloud-based, comprehensive, centralized identity and access management solution that can help secure and protect AWS accounts and environments. Microsoft Entra ID provides centralizedsingle sign-on (SSO)and strong authentication throughmultifactor authentication (MFA)andConditional Accesspolicies. Microsoft Entra ID supports AWS identity management, role-based identities, and access control.
Many organizations that use AWS already rely on Microsoft Entra ID for Microsoft 365 or hybrid cloud identity management and access protection. These organizations can quickly and easily use Microsoft Entra ID with their AWS accounts, often without extra cost. Other,advanced Microsoft Entra featureslike Privileged Identity Management (PIM) and Advanced Identity Protection can help protect the most sensitive AWS accounts.
Microsoft Entra ID easily integrates with other Microsoft security solutions, like Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps and Microsoft Sentinel. For more information, seeDefender for Cloud Apps and Microsoft Sentinel for AWS. Microsoft security solutions are extensible and have multiple levels of protection. Organizations can implement one or more of these solutions along with other types of protection for a full security architecture that protects current and future AWS deployments.
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeMicrosoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.
Security
Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the abuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Security.
The following principles and guidelines are important for any cloud security solution:
Ensure that the organization can monitor, detect, and automatically protect user and programmatic access into cloud environments.
Ensure that the organization can monitor, detect, and automatically protect user and programmatic access into cloud environments.
Continually review current accounts to ensure identity and permission governance and control.
Continually review current accounts to ensure identity and permission governance and control.
Followleast privilegeandZero Trustprinciples. Make sure that each user can access only the specific resources they require, from trusted devices and known locations. Reduce the permissions of every administrator and developer to provide only the rights they need for the role they're performing. Review regularly.
Followleast privilegeandZero Trustprinciples. Make sure that each user can access only the specific resources they require, from trusted devices and known locations. Reduce the permissions of every administrator and developer to provide only the rights they need for the role they're performing. Review regularly.
Continuously monitor platform configuration changes, especially if they provide opportunities for privilege escalation or attack persistence.
Continuously monitor platform configuration changes, especially if they provide opportunities for privilege escalation or attack persistence.
Prevent unauthorized data exfiltration by actively inspecting and controlling content.
Prevent unauthorized data exfiltration by actively inspecting and controlling content.
Take advantage of solutions you might already own like Microsoft Entra ID P2 that can increase security without more expense.
Take advantage of solutions you might already own like Microsoft Entra ID P2 that can increase security without more expense.
To ensure basic security hygiene for AWS accounts and resources:
Review the AWS security guidance atBest practices for securing AWS accounts and resources.
Review the AWS security guidance atBest practices for securing AWS accounts and resources.
Reduce the risk of uploading and downloading malware and other malicious content by actively inspecting all data transfers through the AWS Management Console. Content that uploads or downloads directly to resources within the AWS platform, such as web servers or databases, might need more protection.
Reduce the risk of uploading and downloading malware and other malicious content by actively inspecting all data transfers through the AWS Management Console. Content that uploads or downloads directly to resources within the AWS platform, such as web servers or databases, might need more protection.
Consider protecting access to other resources, including:Resources created within the AWS account.Specific workload platforms, like Windows Server, Linux Server, or containers.Devices that administrators and developers use to access the AWS Management Console.
Consider protecting access to other resources, including:
Resources created within the AWS account.
Specific workload platforms, like Windows Server, Linux Server, or containers.
Devices that administrators and developers use to access the AWS Management Console.
A key aspect of securing the AWS Management Console is controlling who can make sensitive configuration changes. The AWS account root user has unrestricted access. The security team should fully control the root user account to prevent it from signing in to the AWS Management Console or working with AWS resources.
To control the root user account:
Consider changing the root user sign-in credentials from an individual's email address to a service account that the security team controls.
Make sure the root user account password is complex, and enforce MFA for the root user.
Monitor logs for instances of the root user account being used to sign in.
Use the root user account only in emergencies.
Use Microsoft Entra ID to implement delegated administrative access rather than using the root user for administrative tasks.
Clearly understand and review other AWS IAM account components for appropriate mapping and assignments.
By default, an AWS account has noIAM usersuntil the root user creates one or more identities to delegate access. A solution that synchronizes existing users from another identity system, such as Microsoft Active Directory, can also automatically provision IAM users.
By default, an AWS account has noIAM usersuntil the root user creates one or more identities to delegate access. A solution that synchronizes existing users from another identity system, such as Microsoft Active Directory, can also automatically provision IAM users.
IAM policiesprovide delegated access rights to AWS account resources. AWS provides over 750 unique IAM policies, and customers can also define custom policies.
IAM policiesprovide delegated access rights to AWS account resources. AWS provides over 750 unique IAM policies, and customers can also define custom policies.
IAM rolesattach specific policies to identities. Roles are the way to administerrole-based access control (RBAC). The current solution usesExternal Identitiesto implement Microsoft Entra identities by assuming IAM roles.
IAM rolesattach specific policies to identities. Roles are the way to administerrole-based access control (RBAC). The current solution usesExternal Identitiesto implement Microsoft Entra identities by assuming IAM roles.
IAM groupsare also a way to administer RBAC. Instead of assigning IAM policies directly to individual IAM users, create an IAM group, assign permissions by attaching one or more IAM policies, and add IAM users to the group to inherit the appropriate access rights to resources.
IAM groupsare also a way to administer RBAC. Instead of assigning IAM policies directly to individual IAM users, create an IAM group, assign permissions by attaching one or more IAM policies, and add IAM users to the group to inherit the appropriate access rights to resources.
SomeIAM service accountsmust continue to run in AWS IAM to provide programmatic access. Be sure to review these accounts, securely store and restrict access to their security credentials, and rotate the credentials regularly.
Deploy this scenario
This next section shows you how to deploy Microsoft Entra ID for single sign-on to an individual AWS account.
Plan and prepare
To prepare for deployment of Azure security solutions, review and record current AWS account and Microsoft Entra information. If you've more than one AWS account deployed, repeat these steps for each account.
In theAWS Billing Management Console, record the following current AWS account information:AWS Account Id, a unique identifier.Account Nameor root user.Payment method, whether assigned to a credit card or a company billing agreement.Alternate contactswho have access to AWS account information.Security questionssecurely updated and recorded for emergency access.AWS regionsenabled or disabled to comply with data security policy.
In theAWS Billing Management Console, record the following current AWS account information:
AWS Account Id, a unique identifier.
Account Nameor root user.
Payment method, whether assigned to a credit card or a company billing agreement.
Alternate contactswho have access to AWS account information.
Security questionssecurely updated and recorded for emergency access.
AWS regionsenabled or disabled to comply with data security policy.
In theAWS IAM Management Console, review and record the following AWS IAM components:Groupsthat have been created, including detailed membership and role-based mapping policies attached.Usersthat have been created, including thePassword agefor user accounts, and theAccess key agefor service accounts. Also confirm that MFA is enabled for each user.Roles. There are two default service-linked roles,AWSServiceRoleForSupportandAWSServiceRoleForTrustedAdvisor. Record any other roles, which are custom. These roles link to permission policies, to use for mapping roles in Microsoft Entra ID.Policies. Out-of-the-box policies haveAWS managed,Job function, orCustomer managedin theTypecolumn. Record all other policies, which are custom. Also record where each policy is assigned, from the entries in theUsed ascolumn.Identity providers, to understand any existing Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) identity providers. Plan how to replace the existing identity providers with the single Microsoft Entra identity provider.
In theAWS IAM Management Console, review and record the following AWS IAM components:
Groupsthat have been created, including detailed membership and role-based mapping policies attached.
Usersthat have been created, including thePassword agefor user accounts, and theAccess key agefor service accounts. Also confirm that MFA is enabled for each user.
Roles. There are two default service-linked roles,AWSServiceRoleForSupportandAWSServiceRoleForTrustedAdvisor. Record any other roles, which are custom. These roles link to permission policies, to use for mapping roles in Microsoft Entra ID.
Policies. Out-of-the-box policies haveAWS managed,Job function, orCustomer managedin theTypecolumn. Record all other policies, which are custom. Also record where each policy is assigned, from the entries in theUsed ascolumn.
Identity providers, to understand any existing Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) identity providers. Plan how to replace the existing identity providers with the single Microsoft Entra identity provider.
In theAzure portal, review the Microsoft Entra tenant:AssessTenant informationto see whether the tenant has a Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2 license. A P2 license providesAdvanced Microsoft Entra identity managementfeatures.AssessEnterprise applicationsto see whether any existing applications use the AWS application type, as shown byhttp://aws.amazon.com/in theHomepage URLcolumn.
In theAzure portal, review the Microsoft Entra tenant:
AssessTenant informationto see whether the tenant has a Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2 license. A P2 license providesAdvanced Microsoft Entra identity managementfeatures.
AssessEnterprise applicationsto see whether any existing applications use the AWS application type, as shown byhttp://aws.amazon.com/in theHomepage URLcolumn.
http://aws.amazon.com/

The Microsoft Entra deployment procedures assume that Microsoft Entra ID is already configured for the organization, such as for a Microsoft 365 implementation. Accounts can be synchronized from an Active Directory domain, or can be cloud accounts created directly in Microsoft Entra ID.
If the AWS installation uses IAM groups and roles for RBAC, you can map the existing RBAC structure to new Microsoft Entra user accounts and security groups.
If the AWS account doesn't have a strong RBAC implementation, start by working on the most sensitive access:
Update the AWS account root user.
Update the AWS account root user.
Review the AWS IAM users, groups, and roles that are attached to the IAM policyAdministratorAccess.
Review the AWS IAM users, groups, and roles that are attached to the IAM policyAdministratorAccess.
Work through the other assigned IAM policies, starting with policies that can modify, create, or delete resources and other configuration items. You can identify policies in use by looking at theUsed ascolumn.
Work through the other assigned IAM policies, starting with policies that can modify, create, or delete resources and other configuration items. You can identify policies in use by looking at theUsed ascolumn.
Microsoft Entra ID centralizes all authentication and authorization. You can plan and configure user mapping and RBAC without affecting administrators and developers until you're ready to enforce the new methods.
The high-level process for migrating from AWS IAM accounts to Microsoft Entra ID is as follows. For detailed instructions, seeDeployment.
Map IAM policies to Microsoft Entra roles, and use RBAC to map roles to security groups.
Map IAM policies to Microsoft Entra roles, and use RBAC to map roles to security groups.
Replace each IAM user with a Microsoft Entra user who is a member of the appropriate security groups to sign in and gain appropriate permissions.
Replace each IAM user with a Microsoft Entra user who is a member of the appropriate security groups to sign in and gain appropriate permissions.
Test by asking each user to sign in to AWS with their Microsoft Entra account and confirm that they have the appropriate access level.
Test by asking each user to sign in to AWS with their Microsoft Entra account and confirm that they have the appropriate access level.
Once the user confirms Microsoft Entra ID access, remove the AWS IAM user account. Repeat the process for each user until they're all migrated.
Once the user confirms Microsoft Entra ID access, remove the AWS IAM user account. Repeat the process for each user until they're all migrated.
For service accounts and programmatic access, use the same approach. Update each application that uses the account to use an equivalent Microsoft Entra user account instead.
Make sure any remaining AWS IAM users have complex passwords with MFA enabled, or an access key that's replaced regularly.
The following diagram shows an example of the configuration steps and final policy and role mapping across Microsoft Entra ID and AWS IAM:

Single sign-on integration
Microsoft Entra ID supports single sign-on integration with AWS SSO. You can connect Microsoft Entra ID to AWS in one place and centrally govern access across hundreds of accounts and AWS SSO integrated applications. This capability enables seamless Microsoft Entra sign-in experience for users to use the AWS CLI.
The following Microsoft security solution procedure implements SSO for the example rolesAWS AdministratorsandAWS Developers. Repeat this process for any other roles you need.
This procedure covers the following steps:
Create a new Microsoft Entra enterprise application.
Configure Microsoft Entra SSO for AWS.
Update role mapping.
Test Microsoft Entra SSO into AWS Management Console.
The following links provide full detailed implementation steps and troubleshooting:
Microsoft tutorial: Microsoft Entra SSO integration with AWS
AWS tutorial: Microsoft Entra ID to AWS SSO using the SCIM protocol

Add an AWS app to your Microsoft Entra enterprise applications
AWS administrators and developers use an enterprise application to sign in to Microsoft Entra ID for authentication, then redirect to AWS for authorization and access to AWS resources. The simplest method to see the application is by signing in tohttps://myapps.microsoft.com, but you can also publish the unique URL anywhere that provides easy access.
https://myapps.microsoft.com
Follow the instructions inadd Amazon Web Services (AWS) from the galleryto set up the enterprise application. These instructions will let you know what AWS app to add to your Microsoft Entra enterprise applications.
If there's more than one AWS account to administer, such as DevTest and Production, use a unique name for the enterprise application that includes an identifier for the company and specific AWS account.


Configure Microsoft Entra SSO for AWS
Follow the steps below to configure Microsoft Entra SSO for AWS:
OnAzure Portal, follow the steps onConfigure Microsoft Entra SSOto configure theEnterprise Applicationyou've created for single sign-on toAWS.
OnAzure Portal, follow the steps onConfigure Microsoft Entra SSOto configure theEnterprise Applicationyou've created for single sign-on toAWS.
OnAWS Console, follow the steps onConfigure AWS SSOto configure yourAWS accountfor single sign-on. As part of this configuration, you'll create a new IAM user that acts on behalf of the Microsoft Entra provisioning agent to allow synchronization of all availableAWS IAM rolesintoMicrosoft Entra ID. AWS needs this IAM user to map users to roles before they can sign in to theAWS Management Console.
OnAWS Console, follow the steps onConfigure AWS SSOto configure yourAWS accountfor single sign-on. As part of this configuration, you'll create a new IAM user that acts on behalf of the Microsoft Entra provisioning agent to allow synchronization of all availableAWS IAM rolesintoMicrosoft Entra ID. AWS needs this IAM user to map users to roles before they can sign in to theAWS Management Console.
Make it easy to identify the components you create to support this integration. For example, name service accounts with a standard naming convention like "Svc-".
Be sure to document all new items.
Make sure any new credentials include complex passwords that you store centrally for secure lifecycle management.
Based on these configuration steps, you can diagram the interactions like this:

OnAWS Console, follow the steps below to create more roles.
InAWS IAM, selectRoles -> Create Role.
InAWS IAM, selectRoles -> Create Role.
On theCreaterole page, perform the following steps:UnderSelect type of trusted entity, selectSAML 2.0 federation.UnderChoose a SAML 2.0 Provider, select the SAML provider you created in the previous step.SelectAllow programmatic and AWS Management Console access.SelectNext: Permissions.
On theCreaterole page, perform the following steps:
UnderSelect type of trusted entity, selectSAML 2.0 federation.
UnderChoose a SAML 2.0 Provider, select the SAML provider you created in the previous step.
SelectAllow programmatic and AWS Management Console access.
SelectNext: Permissions.
On theAttach permissions policiesdialog box, selectAdministratorAccess. Then selectNext: Tags.
On theAttach permissions policiesdialog box, selectAdministratorAccess. Then selectNext: Tags.
In theAdd Tagsdialog box, leave it blank and selectNext: Review.
In theAdd Tagsdialog box, leave it blank and selectNext: Review.
In theReviewdialog box, perform the following steps:InRole Name, enter your role name(Administrator).InRole Description, enter the description.SelectCreate Role.
In theReviewdialog box, perform the following steps:
InRole Name, enter your role name(Administrator).
InRole Description, enter the description.
SelectCreate Role.
Create another role by following the steps listed above. Name the roleDeveloperand give it a few selected permissions of your choice (such asAmazonS3FullAccess).You've successfully created anAdministratorand aDeveloperrole inAWS.
Create another role by following the steps listed above. Name the roleDeveloperand give it a few selected permissions of your choice (such asAmazonS3FullAccess).
You've successfully created anAdministratorand aDeveloperrole inAWS.
Create the following users and groups inMicrosoft Entra ID:User 1: Test-AWSAdminUser 2: Test-AWSDeveloperGroup 1: AWS-Account1-AdministratorsGroup 2: AWS-Account1-DevelopersAddTest-AWSAdmin as a member ofAWS-Account1-AdministratorsAddTest-AWSDeveloper as a member ofAWS-Account1-Developers
Create the following users and groups inMicrosoft Entra ID:
User 1: Test-AWSAdmin
User 2: Test-AWSDeveloper
Group 1: AWS-Account1-Administrators
Group 2: AWS-Account1-Developers
AddTest-AWSAdmin as a member ofAWS-Account1-Administrators
AddTest-AWSDeveloper as a member ofAWS-Account1-Developers
Follow the steps onHow to configure role provisioning in AWS Single-Account Accessto configure automated role provisioning. It can take up to one hour to complete the first provisioning cycle.
Follow the steps onHow to configure role provisioning in AWS Single-Account Accessto configure automated role provisioning. It can take up to one hour to complete the first provisioning cycle.
How to update role mapping
Because you're using two roles, perform these extra steps:
Confirm that the provisioning agent can see at least two roles:
Confirm that the provisioning agent can see at least two roles:

Go toUsers and groupsand selectAdd User.
Go toUsers and groupsand selectAdd User.
SelectAWS-Account1-Administrators.
SelectAWS-Account1-Administrators.
Select the associated role.
Select the associated role.

Repeat the preceding steps for each group-role mapping. Once complete, you should have two Microsoft Entra groups correctly mapped to AWS IAM roles:
Repeat the preceding steps for each group-role mapping. Once complete, you should have two Microsoft Entra groups correctly mapped to AWS IAM roles:

If you can't see or select a role, go back to theProvisioningpage to confirm successful provisioning in the Microsoft Entra provisioning agent, and make sure the IAM User account has the correct permissions. You can also restart the provisioning engine to attempt the import again:


Test Microsoft Entra SSO into AWS Management Console
Test signing-in as each of the test users to confirm that the SSO works.
Launch a new private browser session to ensure that other stored credentials don't conflict with testing.
Launch a new private browser session to ensure that other stored credentials don't conflict with testing.
Go tohttps://myapps.microsoft.com, using the Test-AWSAdmin or Test-AWSDeveloper Microsoft Entra user account credentials you created previously.
Go tohttps://myapps.microsoft.com, using the Test-AWSAdmin or Test-AWSDeveloper Microsoft Entra user account credentials you created previously.
https://myapps.microsoft.com
You should see the new icon for the AWS Console app. Select the icon, and follow any authentication prompts:
You should see the new icon for the AWS Console app. Select the icon, and follow any authentication prompts:

Once you're signed into the AWS Console, navigate the features to confirm that this account has the appropriate delegated access.
Once you're signed into the AWS Console, navigate the features to confirm that this account has the appropriate delegated access.
Notice the naming format for the user sign-in session:ROLE / UPN / AWS Account NumberYou can use this user sign-in session information for tracking user sign-in activity in Defender for Cloud Apps or Microsoft Sentinel.
Notice the naming format for the user sign-in session:
ROLE / UPN / AWS Account Number
You can use this user sign-in session information for tracking user sign-in activity in Defender for Cloud Apps or Microsoft Sentinel.

Sign out, and repeat the process for the other test user account to confirm the differences in role mapping and permissions.
Sign out, and repeat the process for the other test user account to confirm the differences in role mapping and permissions.
Enable Conditional Access
To create a new Conditional Access policy that requires MFA:
In the Azure portal, navigate toMicrosoft Entra ID>Security, and then selectConditional Access.
In the Azure portal, navigate toMicrosoft Entra ID>Security, and then selectConditional Access.
In the left navigation, selectPolicies.
In the left navigation, selectPolicies.

SelectNew policy, and complete the form as follows:Name: EnterAWS Console – MFAUsers and Groups: Select the two role groups you created earlier:AWS-Account1-AdministratorsAWS-Account1-DevelopersGrant: SelectRequire multi-factor authentication
SelectNew policy, and complete the form as follows:
Name: EnterAWS Console – MFA
Users and Groups: Select the two role groups you created earlier:AWS-Account1-AdministratorsAWS-Account1-Developers
AWS-Account1-Administrators
AWS-Account1-Developers
Grant: SelectRequire multi-factor authentication
SetEnable policytoOn.
SetEnable policytoOn.

SelectCreate. The policy takes effect immediately.
SelectCreate. The policy takes effect immediately.
To test the Conditional Access policy, sign out of the testing accounts, open a new in-private browsing session, and sign in with one of the role group accounts. You see the MFA prompt:
To test the Conditional Access policy, sign out of the testing accounts, open a new in-private browsing session, and sign in with one of the role group accounts. You see the MFA prompt:

Complete the MFA setup process. It's best to use the mobile app for authentication, instead of relying on SMS.
Complete the MFA setup process. It's best to use the mobile app for authentication, instead of relying on SMS.

You might need to create several Conditional Access policies to meet business needs for strong authentication. Consider the naming convention you use when creating the policies to ensure ease of identification and ongoing maintenance. Also, unless MFA is already widely deployed, make sure the policy is scoped to affect only the intended users. Other policies should cover other user groups' needs.
Once you enable Conditional Access, you can impose other controls such as PAM and just-in-time (JIT) provisioning. For more information, seeWhat is automated SaaS app user provisioning in Microsoft Entra ID.
If you have Defender for Cloud Apps, you can use Conditional Access to configure Defender for Cloud Apps session policies. For more information, seeConfigure Microsoft Entra session policies for AWS activities.
Next steps
For security guidance from AWS, seeBest practices for securing AWS accounts and resources.
For the latest Microsoft security information, seewww.microsoft.com/security.
For full details of how to implement and manage Microsoft Entra ID, seeSecuring Azure environments with Microsoft Entra ID.
AWS tutorial: Microsoft Entra ID with IDP SSO
Microsoft tutorial: SSO for AWS
PIM deployment plan
Identity protection security overview
What is Microsoft Defender for Identity?
Connect AWS to Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps
How Defender for Cloud Apps helps protect your Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment
Related resources
For in-depth coverage and comparison of Azure and AWS features, see theAzure for AWS professionalscontent set.
Security and identity on Azure and AWS
Defender for Cloud Apps and Microsoft Sentinel for AWS
Onboard an AWS account
AWS single-account access
AWS Single Sign-on
Configure AWS Single Sign-On
AWS multiple accounts
AWS ClientVPN
Attach and detach policies