Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Choose a data pipeline orchestration technology in Azure
Article
2024-02-27
17 contributors
In this article
Most big data solutions consist of repeated data processing operations, encapsulated in workflows. A pipeline orchestrator is a tool that helps to automate these workflows. An orchestrator can schedule jobs, execute workflows, and coordinate dependencies among tasks.
What are your options for data pipeline orchestration?
In Azure, the following services and tools will meet the core requirements for pipeline orchestration, control flow, and data movement:
Azure Data Factory
Oozie on HDInsight
SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)
These services and tools can be used independently from one another, or used together to create a hybrid solution. For example, the Integration Runtime (IR) in Azure Data Factory V2 can natively execute SSIS packages in a managed Azure compute environment. While there is some overlap in functionality between these services, there are a few key differences.
Key Selection Criteria
To narrow the choices, start by answering these questions:
Do you need big data capabilities for moving and transforming your data? Usually this means multi-gigabytes to terabytes of data. If yes, then narrow your options to those that best suited for big data.
Do you need big data capabilities for moving and transforming your data? Usually this means multi-gigabytes to terabytes of data. If yes, then narrow your options to those that best suited for big data.
Do you require a managed service that can operate at scale? If yes, select one of the cloud-based services that aren't limited by your local processing power.
Do you require a managed service that can operate at scale? If yes, select one of the cloud-based services that aren't limited by your local processing power.
Are some of your data sources located on-premises? If yes, look for options that can work with both cloud and on-premises data sources or destinations.
Are some of your data sources located on-premises? If yes, look for options that can work with both cloud and on-premises data sources or destinations.
Is your source data stored in Blob storage on an HDFS filesystem? If so, choose an option that supports Hive queries.
Is your source data stored in Blob storage on an HDFS filesystem? If so, choose an option that supports Hive queries.
Capability matrix
The following tables summarize the key differences in capabilities.
General capabilities
Pipeline capabilities
Scalability capabilities
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Zoiner Tejada| CEO and Architect
Next steps
Pipelines and activities in Azure Data Factory and Azure Synapse Analytics
Provision the Azure-SSIS integration runtime in Azure Data Factory
Oozie on HDInsight
Related resources
DataOps for the modern data warehouse
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources