Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview: On-premises Active Directory Domain Services authentication over SMB for Azure file shares
Article
2025-04-01
2 contributors
In this article
Azure Files supports identity-based authentication for Windows file shares over Server Message Block (SMB) using the Kerberos authentication protocol through the following methods:
On-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS)
Microsoft Entra Domain Services
Microsoft Entra Kerberos for hybrid user identities
We strongly recommend that you review theHow it works sectionto select the right AD source for authentication. The setup is different depending on the domain service you choose. This article focuses on enabling and configuring on-premises AD DS for authentication with Azure file shares.
If you're new to Azure Files, we recommend reading ourplanning guide.
Applies to
Supported scenarios and restrictions
AD DS identities used for Azure Files on-premises AD DS authentication must be synced to Microsoft Entra ID oruse a default share-level permission. Password hash synchronization is optional.
Supports Azure file shares managed by Azure File Sync.
Supports Kerberos authentication with AD withAES 256 encryption(recommended) and RC4-HMAC. AES 128 Kerberos encryption isn't yet supported.
Supports single sign-on experience.
Only supported on Windows clients running OS versions Windows 8/Windows Server 2012 or newer, or Linux VMs (Ubuntu 18.04+ or an equivalent RHEL or SLES VM).
Only supported against the AD forest that the storage account is registered to. Users belonging to different domains within the same forest should be able to access the file share and underlying directories/files as long as they have the appropriate permissions.
You can only access Azure file shares with the AD DS credentials from a single forest by default. If you need to access your Azure file share from a different forest, make sure that you have the proper forest trust configured. For details, seeUse Azure Files with multiple Active Directory forests.
Doesn't support assigning share-level permissions to computer accounts (machine accounts) using Azure RBAC. You can eitheruse a default share-level permissionto allow computer accounts to access the share, or consider using a service logon account instead.
Doesn't support authentication against Network File System (NFS) file shares.
When you enable AD DS for Azure file shares over SMB, your AD DS-joined machines can mount Azure file shares using your existing AD DS credentials. This capability can be enabled with an AD DS environment hosted either in on-premises machines or hosted on a virtual machine (VM) in Azure.
Videos
To help you set up identity-based authentication for some common use cases, we published two videos with step-by-step guidance for the following scenarios. Note that Azure Active Directory is now Microsoft Entra ID. For more info, seeNew name for Azure AD.
Prerequisites
Before you enable AD DS authentication for Azure file shares, make sure you've completed the following prerequisites:
Select or create yourAD DS environmentandsync it to Microsoft Entra IDusing either the on-premisesMicrosoft Entra Connect Syncapplication orMicrosoft Entra Connect cloud sync, a lightweight agent that can be installed from the Microsoft Entra Admin Center.You can enable the feature on a new or existing on-premises AD DS environment. Identities used for access must be synced to Microsoft Entra ID or use a default share-level permission. The Microsoft Entra tenant and the file share that you're accessing must be associated with the same subscription.
Select or create yourAD DS environmentandsync it to Microsoft Entra IDusing either the on-premisesMicrosoft Entra Connect Syncapplication orMicrosoft Entra Connect cloud sync, a lightweight agent that can be installed from the Microsoft Entra Admin Center.
You can enable the feature on a new or existing on-premises AD DS environment. Identities used for access must be synced to Microsoft Entra ID or use a default share-level permission. The Microsoft Entra tenant and the file share that you're accessing must be associated with the same subscription.
Domain-join an on-premises machine or an Azure VM to on-premises AD DS. For information about how to domain-join, refer toJoin a Computer to a Domain.If a machine isn't domain joined, you can still use AD DS for authentication if the machine has unimpeded network connectivity to the on-premises AD domain controller and the user provides explicit credentials. For more information, seeMount the file share from a non-domain-joined VM or a VM joined to a different AD domain.
Domain-join an on-premises machine or an Azure VM to on-premises AD DS. For information about how to domain-join, refer toJoin a Computer to a Domain.
If a machine isn't domain joined, you can still use AD DS for authentication if the machine has unimpeded network connectivity to the on-premises AD domain controller and the user provides explicit credentials. For more information, seeMount the file share from a non-domain-joined VM or a VM joined to a different AD domain.
Select or create an Azure storage account. For optimal performance, we recommend that you deploy the storage account in the same region as the client from which you plan to access the share. Then,mount the Azure file sharewith your storage account key. Mounting with the storage account key verifies connectivity.Make sure that the storage account containing your file shares isn't already configured for identity-based authentication. If an AD source is already enabled on the storage account, you must disable it before enabling on-premises AD DS.If you experience issues in connecting to Azure Files, refer tothe troubleshooting tool we published for Azure Files mounting errors on Windows.
Select or create an Azure storage account. For optimal performance, we recommend that you deploy the storage account in the same region as the client from which you plan to access the share. Then,mount the Azure file sharewith your storage account key. Mounting with the storage account key verifies connectivity.
Make sure that the storage account containing your file shares isn't already configured for identity-based authentication. If an AD source is already enabled on the storage account, you must disable it before enabling on-premises AD DS.
If you experience issues in connecting to Azure Files, refer tothe troubleshooting tool we published for Azure Files mounting errors on Windows.
Make any relevant networking configuration prior to enabling and configuring AD DS authentication to your Azure file shares. SeeAzure Files networking considerationsfor more information.
Make any relevant networking configuration prior to enabling and configuring AD DS authentication to your Azure file shares. SeeAzure Files networking considerationsfor more information.
Regional availability
Azure Files authentication with AD DS is available inall Azure Public, China and Gov regions.
Overview
If you plan to enable any networking configurations on your file share, we recommend you read thenetworking considerationsarticle and complete the related configuration before enabling AD DS authentication.
Enabling AD DS authentication for your Azure file shares allows you to authenticate to your Azure file shares with your on-premises AD DS credentials. Further, it allows you to better manage your permissions to allow granular access control. Doing this requires synching identities from on-premises AD DS to Microsoft Entra ID using either the on-premisesMicrosoft Entra Connect Syncapplication orMicrosoft Entra Connect cloud sync, a lightweight agent that can be installed from the Microsoft Entra Admin Center. You assign share-level permissions to hybrid identities synced to Microsoft Entra ID while managing file/directory-level access using Windows ACLs.
Follow these steps to set up Azure Files for AD DS authentication:
Enable AD DS authentication on your storage account
Enable AD DS authentication on your storage account
Assign share-level permissions to the Microsoft Entra identity (a user, group, or service principal) that is in sync with the target AD identity
Assign share-level permissions to the Microsoft Entra identity (a user, group, or service principal) that is in sync with the target AD identity
Configure Windows ACLs over SMB for directories and files
Configure Windows ACLs over SMB for directories and files
Mount an Azure file share to a VM joined to your AD DS
Mount an Azure file share to a VM joined to your AD DS
Update the password of your storage account identity in AD DS
Update the password of your storage account identity in AD DS
The following diagram illustrates the end-to-end workflow for enabling AD DS authentication over SMB for Azure file shares.

Identities used to access Azure file shares must be synced to Microsoft Entra ID to enforce share-level file permissions through theAzure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)model. Alternatively, you can use a default share-level permission.Windows-style DACLson files/directories carried over from existing file servers will be preserved and enforced. This offers seamless integration with your enterprise AD DS environment. As you replace on-premises file servers with Azure file shares, existing users can access Azure file shares from their current clients with a single sign-on experience, without any change to the credentials in use.
Next step
To get started, you mustenable AD DS authentication for your storage account.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources