Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How to get help building a landing zone
Article
2025-02-27
10 contributors
In this article
Getting your Azure landing zone (ALZ) done right and on time is important. Working with a certified Azure partner is a great way to get the support you need to build your ALZ.
We'll show you how to find a partner and what to expect from your partner.
There are two options to find an ALZ partner (see image).
Option 1- use Azure Migrate and Modernize.
Option 2- find a partner offer for a landing zone in our marketplace.

Option 1 - Azure Migrate and Modernize
The easiest option to find an ALZ partner is through Azure Migrate and Modernize.
How to find an Azure Migrate and Modernize partner
Take 5 minutes tofill out the Azure Migrate and Modernize form. Someone from the team will help you find the right partner.
What to expect from an Azure Migrate and Modernize partner
All the partners in the program adhere to ALZ best-practices. We vet partners to ensure customers receive ALZ guidance that follows CAF principles. Here are some of the deliverables you and your partner will work through together.
ALZ planning– The Azure Migrate and Modernize partner will work with you to create the business and technical foundation needed to build your ALZ. ALZ planning includes:Selecting your operating modelsReviewing your ALZ implementation optionsIdentifying your compliance requirementsIdentifying any customization needed
ALZ planning– The Azure Migrate and Modernize partner will work with you to create the business and technical foundation needed to build your ALZ. ALZ planning includes:
Selecting your operating models
Reviewing your ALZ implementation options
Identifying your compliance requirements
Identifying any customization needed
ALZ building– Your partner will build and monitor an ALZ pilot. ALZ building includes:Reviewing your ALZ objectives and outcomesDefining your ALZ build planBuilding your ALZ pilotMonitoring your ALZ pilot
ALZ building– Your partner will build and monitor an ALZ pilot. ALZ building includes:
Reviewing your ALZ objectives and outcomes
Defining your ALZ build plan
Building your ALZ pilot
Monitoring your ALZ pilot
Deployment planning– Your partner will work with you to define your deployment plan. Deployment planning includes:Assessing existing workload compatibilityPresenting deployment plan optionsDefining resources, timeline, and next steps to execute the deployment plan
Deployment planning– Your partner will work with you to define your deployment plan. Deployment planning includes:
Assessing existing workload compatibility
Presenting deployment plan options
Defining resources, timeline, and next steps to execute the deployment plan
Option 2 - Partner offers
We have a self-discovery process that you can use to find a partner. TheFind an Azure partnerpage provides information about working with certified Azure partners and links to the offers.
Offers come from Azure advanced specialization partners and Azure Expert Managed Services Providers (MSPs). Microsoft vets and approves each offer before it enters Azure Marketplace.
Advanced specialization partners demonstrate deep technical knowledge, proven success, and ethical business practices. Azure Expert MSPs also meet these criteria but must additionally pass a time- and cost-intensive auditing process.
Offers in the marketplace have a price, description, and contact information. Like any marketplace, there's flexibility in what the offer can be. Partners design and propose offers. Microsoft approves them for the marketplace.
This flexibility creates value for you and allows you to find an offer that meets your specific needs.
How to find partner offers
Go to theFind an Azure partnerpage. This page provides information about both Azure advanced specialization partners and Azure Expert MSPs.In theAzure advanced specialization partnerssection, there's a list of links for specific types of migrations. Available offers are listed on the resulting pages.In theAzure Expert MSPssection, selectFind an Azure Expert Managed Service Providerto go to a similar list of available offers.Each tile or square on these offer pages represents a different offer. Some partners have multiple offers, so you might see a partner appear more than once. Selecting a tile takes you to the partner offer. (There's also a button for contacting the partner. See the next step.)You can filter the results by expanding the categories in theFilterssection on the left side of the page. You can use the search box to filter that list. You can also filter the results by location.Look for landing zone offers. Not every tile on the page will be a landing zone offer. SelectContact meto fill out a contact form. (See the next step.) Select anywhere else in the tile to see the details about the partner's offerings. The partner's technology specializations are listed in the tile. If there are more than one, there's a blue number next to the technology. Hover over the blue number to see the full list.
Go to theFind an Azure partnerpage. This page provides information about both Azure advanced specialization partners and Azure Expert MSPs.
In theAzure advanced specialization partnerssection, there's a list of links for specific types of migrations. Available offers are listed on the resulting pages.
In theAzure Expert MSPssection, selectFind an Azure Expert Managed Service Providerto go to a similar list of available offers.
Each tile or square on these offer pages represents a different offer. Some partners have multiple offers, so you might see a partner appear more than once. Selecting a tile takes you to the partner offer. (There's also a button for contacting the partner. See the next step.)
You can filter the results by expanding the categories in theFilterssection on the left side of the page. You can use the search box to filter that list. You can also filter the results by location.
You can filter the results by expanding the categories in theFilterssection on the left side of the page. You can use the search box to filter that list. You can also filter the results by location.
Look for landing zone offers. Not every tile on the page will be a landing zone offer. SelectContact meto fill out a contact form. (See the next step.) Select anywhere else in the tile to see the details about the partner's offerings. The partner's technology specializations are listed in the tile. If there are more than one, there's a blue number next to the technology. Hover over the blue number to see the full list.
Look for landing zone offers. Not every tile on the page will be a landing zone offer. SelectContact meto fill out a contact form. (See the next step.) Select anywhere else in the tile to see the details about the partner's offerings. The partner's technology specializations are listed in the tile. If there are more than one, there's a blue number next to the technology. Hover over the blue number to see the full list.
Meet potential partners– Use theContact mebutton to reach out to partners. Meet with several landing zone partners to find the right fit. Get a sense of their process, experience, and successes.
Meet potential partners– Use theContact mebutton to reach out to partners. Meet with several landing zone partners to find the right fit. Get a sense of their process, experience, and successes.
Understand the offers– Partners have more freedom to customize their ALZ approach outside of Azure Migrate and Modernize. Read the offer. Ask follow-up questions. Make sure you understand the offer and define expectations.
Understand the offers– Partners have more freedom to customize their ALZ approach outside of Azure Migrate and Modernize. Read the offer. Ask follow-up questions. Make sure you understand the offer and define expectations.
Pick an offer- Pick the offer that best meets your needs. Formalize the agreement and start building your landing zone with your partner.
Pick an offer- Pick the offer that best meets your needs. Formalize the agreement and start building your landing zone with your partner.
What to expect from partner offers
Partner offers are vetted and approved for the marketplace. They follow CAF principles in general but have more freedom to customize their approach to the ALZ process. Expectations should align with the offer description and any other agreements made between you and your chosen partner.
Links to find a landing zone partner
Option 1 -Azure Migrate and Modernize
Option 2 -Find an Azure partner
Next steps
Learn about the process for refactoring landing zones.
Refactor landing zones
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources