Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Migrate Overview
Article
2025-04-23
17 contributors
In this article
Azure Migrate is a service that helps you decide, plan, and execute your migration to Azure. Azure Migrate helps you find the best migration path, assess for Azure readiness and cost of hosting workloads on Azure, and perform the migration with minimal downtime and risk. Azure Migrate provides support for servers, databases, web apps, virtual desktops, and large-scale offline migration using databox.
Azure Migrate Classic: This is the classic Azure Migrate experience where you can discover, plan and migrate different workloads. This view doesn't support application and cross workload views.
What is Azure Migrate?
Azure Migrate provides a simplified migration, modernization, and optimization service for customers who are looking at migrating their on-premises workloads to Azure. This tool provides you with a one stop solution to discover, generate business case, assess, right-size, and eventually migrate your infrastructure, data, and web application workloads. A general migration journey includes the following phases:

Decide: The first step in a migration journey is to identify your workloads. This process of identification is known as discovery. To discover your workloads, you can deploy a light-weightAzure Migrate appliance(recommended approach) or quickly import the inventory data for your workloads. The Azure Migrate appliance is a virtual appliance that can be deployed on a server on your datacenter. The appliance collects the configuration and performance data for your servers and continually sends it over to Azure Migrate Service. Once the inventory of workloads is identified, you can create a business case to make your decision to migrate to Azure.Business casehelps you decide if you should migrate your on-premises workloads to Azure, by estimating the costs and savings of moving to Azure. The business case helps you identify-On-premises vs Azure total cost of ownershipYoY comparison of cash flowsResource utilization-based insights on Azure targets.Long-term cost reduction by switching from a capital expenditure (Capex) model to an Operating expenditure (Opex) model. Learn more aboutbusiness case.
Decide: The first step in a migration journey is to identify your workloads. This process of identification is known as discovery. To discover your workloads, you can deploy a light-weightAzure Migrate appliance(recommended approach) or quickly import the inventory data for your workloads. The Azure Migrate appliance is a virtual appliance that can be deployed on a server on your datacenter. The appliance collects the configuration and performance data for your servers and continually sends it over to Azure Migrate Service. Once the inventory of workloads is identified, you can create a business case to make your decision to migrate to Azure.
Business casehelps you decide if you should migrate your on-premises workloads to Azure, by estimating the costs and savings of moving to Azure. The business case helps you identify-On-premises vs Azure total cost of ownershipYoY comparison of cash flowsResource utilization-based insights on Azure targets.Long-term cost reduction by switching from a capital expenditure (Capex) model to an Operating expenditure (Opex) model. Learn more aboutbusiness case.
On-premises vs Azure total cost of ownership
YoY comparison of cash flows
Resource utilization-based insights on Azure targets.
Long-term cost reduction by switching from a capital expenditure (Capex) model to an Operating expenditure (Opex) model. Learn more aboutbusiness case.
Plan: Once the decision is made to migrate to Azure, the next important phase is planning of migration. To plan migration in detail you can  assess your discovered workloads using Azure Migrate assessments to find the readiness, right-sized targets, configuration of the target Azure resources, cost of hosting target resources on Azure, and migration guidance.Azure readiness: Assesses whether on-premises servers, SQL Servers, and web apps are ready for migration to Azure.Rightsizing: Estimates the size of Azure VMs/Azure SQL configuration/number of Azure VMware Solution nodes after migration.Azure cost estimation: Estimates costs for running on-premises servers in Azure.Dependency Analysis:Dependency analysis helps you understand the network dependencies between servers in your datacenter so that you can make high confidence migration plans without missing any critical dependency during migration. Learn more aboutdependency analysis.
Plan: Once the decision is made to migrate to Azure, the next important phase is planning of migration. To plan migration in detail you can  assess your discovered workloads using Azure Migrate assessments to find the readiness, right-sized targets, configuration of the target Azure resources, cost of hosting target resources on Azure, and migration guidance.
Azure readiness: Assesses whether on-premises servers, SQL Servers, and web apps are ready for migration to Azure.
Rightsizing: Estimates the size of Azure VMs/Azure SQL configuration/number of Azure VMware Solution nodes after migration.
Azure cost estimation: Estimates costs for running on-premises servers in Azure.
Dependency Analysis:Dependency analysis helps you understand the network dependencies between servers in your datacenter so that you can make high confidence migration plans without missing any critical dependency during migration. Learn more aboutdependency analysis.
Execute: In this phase, you perform the migration or modernization of your workloads to move to Azure. You can use the Azure Migrate service or partner tools to migrate your servers, databases, web apps, or virtual desktops with minimal downtime and risk. You can migrate the following workloads using the integrated migration tool.MigrateDetailsOn-premises VMware VMsMigrate VMs to Azure using agentless or agent-based migration.For agentless migration, theMigration and modernization tooluses the same appliance, used for discovery and assessment of servers.For agent-based migration, the Migration and modernization tool uses a replication appliance.On-premises Hyper-V VMsMigrate VMs to Azure.TheMigration and modernization tooluses provider agents installed on Hyper-V host for the migration.On-premises physical servers or servers hosted on other cloudsYou can migrate physical servers to Azure. You can also migrate other virtualized servers, and VMs from other public clouds, by treating them as physical servers for the purpose of migration. The Migration and modernization tool uses a replication appliance for the migration.Web apps hosted on Windows OS in a VMware environmentYou can perform agentless migration of ASP.NET web apps at-scale toAzure App Serviceusing Azure Migrate.
Execute: In this phase, you perform the migration or modernization of your workloads to move to Azure. You can use the Azure Migrate service or partner tools to migrate your servers, databases, web apps, or virtual desktops with minimal downtime and risk. You can migrate the following workloads using the integrated migration tool.
Azure Migrate provides support for end-to-end migration of your workloads to Azure at each phase mentioned above.
Why use Azure Migrate?
Azure Migrate offers multiple benefits for your cloud migration journey, such as:
Unified migration platform: A single portal to start, run, and track your migration to Azure. The unified platform supports discovery, assessment, and migration of variety of workloads like servers, databases, Web applications.
Unified migration platform: A single portal to start, run, and track your migration to Azure. The unified platform supports discovery, assessment, and migration of variety of workloads like servers, databases, Web applications.
Free tool: Azure Migrate is a free self-service tool that you can use to identify your inventory of workloads, assess them for multiple IaaS and PaaS Azure targets, develop plan for their migration, and finally migrate them using in-product, first-party, and partner migration tools (Partner tools might charge you for using their services).
Free tool: Azure Migrate is a free self-service tool that you can use to identify your inventory of workloads, assess them for multiple IaaS and PaaS Azure targets, develop plan for their migration, and finally migrate them using in-product, first-party, and partner migration tools (Partner tools might charge you for using their services).
Range of tools: Azure Migrate has tools for assessment and migration which includes Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment and Migration and modernization.
Range of tools: Azure Migrate has tools for assessment and migration which includes Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment and Migration and modernization.
Assessment, migration, and modernization: In the Azure Migrate hub, you can assess, migrate, and modernize:Servers, databases and web apps: Assess on-premises servers including web apps and SQL Server instances and migrate them to Azure.Databases: Assess on-premises SQL Server instances and databases to migrate them to an SQL Server on an Azure VM or an Azure SQL Managed Instance or to an Azure SQL Database.Web applications: Assess on-premises web applications and migrate them to Azure App Service and Azure Kubernetes Service.Data: Migrate large amounts of data to Azure quickly and cost-effectively using Azure Data Box products.
Assessment, migration, and modernization: In the Azure Migrate hub, you can assess, migrate, and modernize:
Servers, databases and web apps: Assess on-premises servers including web apps and SQL Server instances and migrate them to Azure.
Servers, databases and web apps: Assess on-premises servers including web apps and SQL Server instances and migrate them to Azure.
Databases: Assess on-premises SQL Server instances and databases to migrate them to an SQL Server on an Azure VM or an Azure SQL Managed Instance or to an Azure SQL Database.
Databases: Assess on-premises SQL Server instances and databases to migrate them to an SQL Server on an Azure VM or an Azure SQL Managed Instance or to an Azure SQL Database.
Web applications: Assess on-premises web applications and migrate them to Azure App Service and Azure Kubernetes Service.
Web applications: Assess on-premises web applications and migrate them to Azure App Service and Azure Kubernetes Service.
Data: Migrate large amounts of data to Azure quickly and cost-effectively using Azure Data Box products.
Data: Migrate large amounts of data to Azure quickly and cost-effectively using Azure Data Box products.
Integrated tools
Azure Migrate has a suite of the following tools integrated within the product:
Next steps
Try our tutorials to discoverVMware VMs,Hyper-V VMs, orphysical servers.
Review frequently asked questionsabout Azure Migrate.
Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure VMware Solution landing zone accelerator.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources