Azure Virtual Desktop for the enterprise
Azure Virtual Desktopis a desktop and application virtualization service that runs in Azure. This article is intended to help desktop infrastructure architects, cloud architects, desktop administrators, and system administrators explore Azure Virtual Desktop and build virtualized desktop infrastructure (virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI)) solutions at enterprise scale. Enterprise-scale solutions generally cover 1,000 or more virtual desktops.
Architecture
A typical architectural setup for Azure Virtual Desktop is illustrated in the following diagram:

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Dataflow
The diagram's dataflow elements are described here:
The application endpoints are in a customer's on-premises network. Azure ExpressRoute extends the on-premises network into Azure, and Microsoft Entra Connect integrates the customer's Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) with Microsoft Entra ID.
The application endpoints are in a customer's on-premises network. Azure ExpressRoute extends the on-premises network into Azure, and Microsoft Entra Connect integrates the customer's Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) with Microsoft Entra ID.
The Azure Virtual Desktop control plane handles web access, gateway, broker, diagnostics, and extensibility components such as REST APIs.
The Azure Virtual Desktop control plane handles web access, gateway, broker, diagnostics, and extensibility components such as REST APIs.
The customer manages AD DS and Microsoft Entra ID, Azure subscriptions, virtual networks,Azure Files or Azure NetApp Files, and the Azure Virtual Desktop host pools and workspaces.
The customer manages AD DS and Microsoft Entra ID, Azure subscriptions, virtual networks,Azure Files or Azure NetApp Files, and the Azure Virtual Desktop host pools and workspaces.
To increase capacity, the customer uses two Azure subscriptions in a hub-spoke architecture and connects them via virtual network peering.
To increase capacity, the customer uses two Azure subscriptions in a hub-spoke architecture and connects them via virtual network peering.
For more information about FSLogix Profile Container - Azure Files and Azure NetApp Files best practices, seeFSLogix configuration examples.
Components
Azure Virtual Desktopservice architecture is similar toWindows Server Remote Desktop Services (RDS). Although Microsoft manages the infrastructure and brokering components, enterprise customers manage their own desktop host virtual machines (VMs), data, and clients.
Microsoft manages the following Azure Virtual Desktop services, as part of Azure:
Web Access: By using theWeb Accessservice within Azure Virtual Desktop you can access virtual desktops and remote apps through an HTML5-compatible web browser just as you would with a local PC, from anywhere and on any device. You can secure web access by using multifactor authentication in Microsoft Entra ID.
Web Access: By using theWeb Accessservice within Azure Virtual Desktop you can access virtual desktops and remote apps through an HTML5-compatible web browser just as you would with a local PC, from anywhere and on any device. You can secure web access by using multifactor authentication in Microsoft Entra ID.
Gateway: The Remote Connection Gateway service connects remote users to Azure Virtual Desktop apps and desktops from any internet-connected device that can run an Azure Virtual Desktop client. The client connects to a gateway, which then orchestrates a connection from a VM back to the same gateway.
Gateway: The Remote Connection Gateway service connects remote users to Azure Virtual Desktop apps and desktops from any internet-connected device that can run an Azure Virtual Desktop client. The client connects to a gateway, which then orchestrates a connection from a VM back to the same gateway.
Connection Broker: The Connection Broker service manages user connections to virtual desktops and remote apps. Connection Broker provides load balancing and reconnection to existing sessions.
Connection Broker: The Connection Broker service manages user connections to virtual desktops and remote apps. Connection Broker provides load balancing and reconnection to existing sessions.
Diagnostics: Remote Desktop Diagnostics is an event-based aggregator that marks each user or administrator action on the Azure Virtual Desktop deployment as a success or failure. Administrators can query the event aggregation to identify failing components.
Diagnostics: Remote Desktop Diagnostics is an event-based aggregator that marks each user or administrator action on the Azure Virtual Desktop deployment as a success or failure. Administrators can query the event aggregation to identify failing components.
Extensibility components: Azure Virtual Desktop includes several extensibility components. You can manage Azure Virtual Desktop by using Windows PowerShell or with the provided REST APIs, which also enable support from third-party tools.
Extensibility components: Azure Virtual Desktop includes several extensibility components. You can manage Azure Virtual Desktop by using Windows PowerShell or with the provided REST APIs, which also enable support from third-party tools.
You manage the following components of Azure Virtual Desktop solutions:
Azure Virtual Network: WithAzure Virtual Network, Azure resources such as VMs can communicate privately with each other and with the internet. By connecting Azure Virtual Desktop host pools to an Active Directory domain, you can define network topology to access virtual desktops and virtual apps from the intranet or internet, based on organizational policy. You can connect an Azure Virtual Desktop instance to an on-premises network by using a virtual private network (VPN), or you can useAzure ExpressRouteto extend the on-premises network into Azure over a private connection.
Azure Virtual Network: WithAzure Virtual Network, Azure resources such as VMs can communicate privately with each other and with the internet. By connecting Azure Virtual Desktop host pools to an Active Directory domain, you can define network topology to access virtual desktops and virtual apps from the intranet or internet, based on organizational policy. You can connect an Azure Virtual Desktop instance to an on-premises network by using a virtual private network (VPN), or you can useAzure ExpressRouteto extend the on-premises network into Azure over a private connection.
Microsoft Entra ID: Azure Virtual Desktop usesMicrosoft Entra IDfor identity and access management. Microsoft Entra integration applies Microsoft Entra security features, such as conditional access, multifactor authentication, andIntelligent Security Graph, and it helps maintain app compatibility in domain-joined VMs.
Microsoft Entra ID: Azure Virtual Desktop usesMicrosoft Entra IDfor identity and access management. Microsoft Entra integration applies Microsoft Entra security features, such as conditional access, multifactor authentication, andIntelligent Security Graph, and it helps maintain app compatibility in domain-joined VMs.
Active Directory Domain Services (Optional): Azure Virtual Desktop VMs can either be domain joined to anAD DSservice or useDeploy Microsoft Entra joined virtual machines in Azure Virtual DesktopWhen using an AD DS domain, the domain must be in sync with Microsoft Entra ID to associate users between the two services. You can useMicrosoft Entra Connectto associate AD DS with Microsoft Entra ID.When using Microsoft Entra join, review thesupported configurationsto ensure your scenario is supported.
Active Directory Domain Services (Optional): Azure Virtual Desktop VMs can either be domain joined to anAD DSservice or useDeploy Microsoft Entra joined virtual machines in Azure Virtual Desktop
When using an AD DS domain, the domain must be in sync with Microsoft Entra ID to associate users between the two services. You can useMicrosoft Entra Connectto associate AD DS with Microsoft Entra ID.
When using Microsoft Entra join, review thesupported configurationsto ensure your scenario is supported.
Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts: Session hosts are VMs that users connect to for their desktops and applications. Several versions of Windows are supported and you can create images with your applications and customizations. You can choose VM sizes, including GPU-enabled VMs. Each session host has an Azure Virtual Desktop host agent, which registers the VM as part of the Azure Virtual Desktop workspace or tenant. Each host pool can have one or more app groups, which are collections of remote applications or desktop sessions that you can access. To see which versions of Windows are supported, seeOperating systems and licenses.
Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts: Session hosts are VMs that users connect to for their desktops and applications. Several versions of Windows are supported and you can create images with your applications and customizations. You can choose VM sizes, including GPU-enabled VMs. Each session host has an Azure Virtual Desktop host agent, which registers the VM as part of the Azure Virtual Desktop workspace or tenant. Each host pool can have one or more app groups, which are collections of remote applications or desktop sessions that you can access. To see which versions of Windows are supported, seeOperating systems and licenses.
Azure Virtual Desktop workspace: The Azure Virtual Desktop workspace or tenant is a management construct for managing and publishing host pool resources.
Azure Virtual Desktop workspace: The Azure Virtual Desktop workspace or tenant is a management construct for managing and publishing host pool resources.
Scenario details
Potential use cases
The greatest demand for enterprise virtual desktop solutions comes from:
Security and regulation applications, such as financial services, healthcare, and government.
Security and regulation applications, such as financial services, healthcare, and government.
Elastic workforce needs, such as remote work, mergers and acquisitions, short-term employees, contractors, and partner access.
Elastic workforce needs, such as remote work, mergers and acquisitions, short-term employees, contractors, and partner access.
Specific employees, such as bring your own device (BYOD) and mobile users, call centers, and branch workers.
Specific employees, such as bring your own device (BYOD) and mobile users, call centers, and branch workers.
Specialized workloads, such as design and engineering, legacy apps, and software development testing.
Specialized workloads, such as design and engineering, legacy apps, and software development testing.
Personal and pooled desktops
By using personal desktop solutions, sometimes calledpersistent desktops, users can always connect to the same specific session host. Users can ordinarily modify their desktop experience to meet personal preferences, and they can save files in the desktop environment. Personal desktop solutions:
Let users customize their desktop environment, including user-installed applications, and users can save files within the desktop environment.
Allow assigning dedicated resources to specific users, which can be helpful for some manufacturing or development use cases.
Pooled desktop solutions, also callednon-persistent desktops, assign users to whichever session host is currently available, depending on the load-balancing algorithm. Because users don't always return to the same session host each time they connect, they have limited ability to customize the desktop environment and don't usually have administrator access.
Note
Persistent and non-persistent terminology in this case is in reference to the persistence of the user profile. It does not imply that the operating system disk reverts to a golden image or discards changes on reboot.
Windows servicing
There are several options for updating Azure Virtual Desktop instances. Deploying an updated image every month guarantees compliance and state.
Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager (MECM)updates server and desktop operating systems.
Windows Updates for Businessupdates desktop operating systems such as Windows 11 Enterprise multi-session.
Azure Update Managementupdates server operating systems.
Azure Log Analyticschecks compliance.
Deploy a new (custom) image to session hosts every month for the latest Windows and applications updates. You can use an image from Azure Marketplace or acustom Azure-managed image.
Relationships between key logical components
The relationships between host pools, workspaces, and other key logical components vary. They're summarized in the following diagram:

The numbers in the following descriptions correspond to those in the preceding diagram.
(1)An application group that contains a published desktop can only contain MSIX packages mounted to the host pool (the packages will be available in theStartmenu of the session host), it can't contain any other published resources and is called a desktop application group.
(2)Application groups assigned to the same host pool must be members of the same workspace.
(3)A user account can be assigned to an application group either directly or via a Microsoft Entra group. It's possible to assign no users to an application group, but then it can't service any.
(4)It's possible to have an empty workspace, but it can't service users.
(5)It's possible to have an empty host pool, but it can't service users.
(6)It's possible for a host pool not to have any application groups assigned to it but it can't service users.
(7)Microsoft Entra ID is required for Azure Virtual Desktop. This is because Microsoft Entra user accounts and groups must always be used to assign users to Azure Virtual Desktop application groups. Microsoft Entra ID is also used to authenticate users into the Azure Virtual Desktop service. Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts can also be members of a Microsoft Entra domain, and in this situation the Azure Virtual Desktop-published applications and desktop sessions will also be launched and run (not just assigned) by using Microsoft Entra accounts.(7)Alternatively, Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts can be members of an AD DS domain, and in this situation the Azure Virtual Desktop-published applications and desktop sessions will be launched and run (but not assigned) by using AD DS accounts. To reduce user and administrative overhead, AD DS can be synchronized with Microsoft Entra ID through Microsoft Entra Connect.(7)Finally, Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts can, instead, be members of a Microsoft Entra Domain Services domain, and in this situation the Azure Virtual Desktop-published applications and desktop sessions will be launched and run (but not assigned) by using Microsoft Entra Domain Services accounts. Microsoft Entra ID is automatically synchronized with Microsoft Entra Domain Services, one way, from Microsoft Entra ID to Microsoft Entra Domain Services only.
(7)Alternatively, Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts can be members of an AD DS domain, and in this situation the Azure Virtual Desktop-published applications and desktop sessions will be launched and run (but not assigned) by using AD DS accounts. To reduce user and administrative overhead, AD DS can be synchronized with Microsoft Entra ID through Microsoft Entra Connect.
(7)Finally, Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts can, instead, be members of a Microsoft Entra Domain Services domain, and in this situation the Azure Virtual Desktop-published applications and desktop sessions will be launched and run (but not assigned) by using Microsoft Entra Domain Services accounts. Microsoft Entra ID is automatically synchronized with Microsoft Entra Domain Services, one way, from Microsoft Entra ID to Microsoft Entra Domain Services only.
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that you can use to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeWell-Architected Framework.
Use theassessment toolto assess the readiness of your Azure Virtual Desktop workload. This tool checks your alignment to best practices described in theAzure Virtual Desktop workload documentation.
Reliability
Reliability helps ensure that your application can meet the commitments that you make to your customers. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Reliability.
Ensure capacity is reserved: To ensure guaranteed allocation of compute resources, you can request anOn-demand capacity reservationwith no term commitment and can be combined with reserved instances.
Add Intra-region resiliency: UseAvailability zonesfor Azure services that support them such as:Virtual Machines (Session Hosts)Azure Storage (FSLogix or App Attach). For more information, seeAzure Storage redundancy.
Virtual Machines (Session Hosts)
Azure Storage (FSLogix or App Attach). For more information, seeAzure Storage redundancy.
Build a business continuity plan: Ifavailability zonesdo not meet your RTO or RPO targets, review the guidance onMultiregion Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR)for Azure Virtual Desktop.
Security
Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the misuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Security.
Consider the following security-related factors when you deploy Azure Virtual Desktop.
Use Microsoft Entra ID: Users can sign into Azure Virtual Desktop from anywhere using different devices and clients. To minimize the risk of unauthorized access and provide your organization with the ability to manage sign-in risks,Enforce Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication using Conditional Access.
Use encryption: By default, most Azure managed disks are encrypted at rest when persisting to the cloud. If your session hosts require more extensive encryption, like end-to-end encryption, review the guidance onmanaged disk encryption optionsto protect stored data from unauthorized access.
Use private networking: If you require private connectivity to Azure Virtual Desktop resources, useAzure Private Link with Azure Virtual Desktopto constrain traffic between your virtual network and the service on the Microsoft Network.
Note
For more security recommendations, see the guidance onSecurity recommendations for Azure Virtual Desktop.
Cost Optimization
Cost Optimization focuses on ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Cost Optimization.
Consider the following cost-related factors when you deploy Azure Virtual Desktop.
Plan multi-session support: For workloads with identical compute requirements, generally pooled host pools,Windows Enterprise multi-sessionoffers the ability to accept more users to sign in to a single VM at once; reducing costs and administrative overhead.
Optimize licensing: If you have Software Assurance, you can useAzure Hybrid Benefitto reduce the cost of your Azure compute infrastructure.
Pre-purchase compute: You can commit to one-year or three-year plans,Azure Reservations, based on your VM usage to receive a discount to significantly reduce your resource cost. This can be combined with Azure Hybrid Benefit for additional savings.
Scale in and out as needed: If committing to Azure Reservations is not appropriate for your current needs, considerAutoscale scaling plansfor dynamic provisioning/deprovisioning of session hosts as the demand changes through the day/week.
Evaluate load-balancing options: Configure your host pool load balancing algorithm to depth-first. Be aware however, this can configuration degrades the users experience; the default breadth-first optimized user experience. For more information, seeConfigure host pool load balancing in Azure Virtual Desktop.
Operational Excellence
Operational Excellence covers the operations processes that deploy an application and keep it running in production. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Operational Excellence.
Configure alerts:  ConfigureService HealthandResource Healthalerts to stay informed about the health of the Azure services and regions that you use.Monitor the Azure Storage solution that you use for hosting FSLogix Profiles or App Attach shares to ensure that thresholds aren't exceeded, which might have a negative impact on your user experience.
Monitor the Azure Storage solution that you use for hosting FSLogix Profiles or App Attach shares to ensure that thresholds aren't exceeded, which might have a negative impact on your user experience.
Collect performance data: Install theAzure Monitoring Agenton your Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts to extract and monitor performance counters and event logs. For more information, see thelist of configurable performance metrics/counters and event logs.
Collect usage insights: UseAzure Virtual Desktop Insightsto help with checks such as which client versions are connecting, opportunities for cost saving, or knowing if you have resource limitations or connectivity issues.
Tune diagnostic settings:  Enable diagnostic settings for all services, Azure Virtual Desktop workspaces, application groups, host pools, storage accounts. Determine which settings are meaningful to your operations. Turn off settings that aren't meaningful to avoid undue costs; storage accounts (specifically the file service) that see a high amount of IOPS can incur high monitoring costs.
Performance Efficiency
Performance Efficiency refers to your workload's ability to scale to meet user demands efficiently. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Performance Efficiency.
Use antivirus exclusions: For profile solutions like FSLogix that mount virtual hard disk files, it's recommended to exclude those file extensions. For more information, seeConfigure Antivirus file and folder exclusions.
Tune for latency: For clients using a Point-to-Site (P2S) VPN connection use a split tunnel that's based on User Datagram Protocol (UDP) to reduce latency and optimize your tunnel bandwidth usage. For on-site clients who use a VPN or Azure ExpressRoute, useRDP Shortpathto reduce the round-trip time, which improves the user experience in latency-sensitive applications and input methods.
Use right-size compute:Virtual machine sizing guidelineslists the maximum suggested number of users per virtual central processing unit (vCPU) and minimum VM configurations for different workloads. This data helps estimate the VMs you need in your host pool.Utilize simulation tools to test deployments with both stress tests and real-life usage simulations. Make sure that the system is responsive and resilient enough to meet user needs and remember to vary the load sizes when testing.
Utilize simulation tools to test deployments with both stress tests and real-life usage simulations. Make sure that the system is responsive and resilient enough to meet user needs and remember to vary the load sizes when testing.
Use ephemeral OS disks: If you treat your session hosts like cattle as opposed to pets,Ephemeral OS disksare great way to improve performance, latency similar to temporary disks, and simultaneously save costs as they are free.
Limitations
Azure Virtual Desktop, much like Azure, has certain service limitations that you need to be aware of. To avoid having to make changes in the scaling phase, it's a good idea to address some of these limitations during the design phase.
For more information about the Azure Virtual Desktop Service limitations, seeAzure Virtual Desktop Service limits.
Also, note that:
You can't create more than 500 application groups per single Microsoft Entra tenant*.If you require more than 500 application groups, submit a support ticket via the Azure portal.
If you require more than 500 application groups, submit a support ticket via the Azure portal.
We recommend that you donotpublish more than 50 applications per application group.
We recommend that you deploy no more than 5,000 VMs per Azure subscription per region. This recommendation applies to both personal and pooled host pools, based on Windows Enterprise single and multi-session. Most customers use Windows Enterprise multi-session, which allows multiple users to sign in to each VM. You can increase the resources of individual session-host VMs to accommodate more user sessions.
For automated session-host scaling tools, the limits are around 2,500 VMs per Azure subscription per region, because VM status interaction consumes more resources.
To manage enterprise environments with more than 5,000 VMs per Azure subscription in the same region, you can create multiple Azure subscriptions in a hub-spoke architecture and connect them via virtual network peering (using one subscription per spoke). You could also deploy VMs in a different region in the same subscription to increase the number of VMs.
Azure Resource Manager subscription API throttling limits don't allow more than 600 Azure VM reboots per hour via the Azure portal. You can reboot all your machines at once via the operating system, which doesn't consume any Azure Resource Manager subscription API calls. For more information about counting and troubleshooting throttling limits based on your Azure subscription, seeTroubleshoot API throttling errors.
You can currently deploy up to 132 VMs in a single ARM template deployment in the Azure Virtual Desktop portal. To create more than 132 VMs, run the ARM template deployment in the Azure Virtual Desktop portal multiple times.
Azure VM session-host name prefixes can't exceed 11 characters, due to auto-assigning of instance names and the NetBIOS limit of 15 characters per computer account.
By default, you can deploy up to 800 instances of most resource types in a resource group. Azure Compute doesn't have this limit.
For more information about Azure subscription limitations, seeAzure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints.
Deploy this scenario
A collection ofARM templatescan be employed automate the deployment of your Azure Virtual Desktop environment. These ARM templates support only the Azure Resource Manager Azure Virtual Desktop objects. These ARM templates don't support Azure Virtual Desktop (classic).
More scenarios are available from Microsoft Developer Tools which supports several deployment options:
Azure Virtual Desktop with Microsoft Entra ID Join
Azure Virtual Desktop with FSLogix and AD DS Join
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Tom Hickling| Senior Product Manager, Azure Virtual Desktop Engineering
Other contributor:
Nelson Del Villar| Cloud Solution Architect, Azure Core Infrastructure
Next steps
Azure Virtual Desktop partner integrationslists approved Azure Virtual Desktop partner providers and independent software vendors.
Use theVirtual Desktop Optimization Toolto help optimize performance in a Windows 11 Enterprise VDI (virtual desktop infrastructure) environment.
For more information, seeDeploy Microsoft Entra joined virtual machines in Azure Virtual Desktop.
Learn more aboutActive Directory Domain Services.
What is Microsoft Entra Connect?
Learn more about theAzure Virtual Desktop Well-Architected Framework
Related resources
For more information about multiple Active Directory forests architecture, seeMultiple Active Directory forests architecture in Azure Virtual Desktop.