Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitoring Azure Databricks
Article
2024-05-30
15 contributors
In this article
Azure Databricksis a fast, powerfulApache Spark–based analytics service that makes it easy to rapidly develop and deploy big data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) solutions. Many users take advantage of the simplicity of notebooks in their Azure Databricks solutions. For users that require more robust computing options, Azure Databricks supports the distributed execution of custom application code.
Monitoring is a critical part of any production-level solution, and Azure Databricks offers robust functionality for monitoring custom application metrics, streaming query events, and application log messages. Azure Databricks can send this monitoring data to different logging services.
The following articles show how to send monitoring data from Azure Databricks toAzure Monitor, the monitoring data platform for Azure.
Send Azure Databricks application logs to Azure Monitor
Use dashboards to visualize Azure Databricks metrics
Troubleshoot performance bottlenecks
The code library that accompanies these articles extends the core monitoring functionality of Azure Databricks to send Spark metrics, events, and logging information to Azure Monitor.
The audience for these articles and the accompanying code library are Apache Spark and Azure Databricks solution developers. The code must be built into Java Archive (JAR) files and then deployed to an Azure Databricks cluster. The code is a combination ofScalaand Java, with a corresponding set ofMavenproject object model (POM) files to build the output JAR files. Understanding of Java, Scala, and Maven are recommended as prerequisites.
Next steps
Start by building the code library and deploying it to your Azure Databricks cluster.
Send Azure Databricks application logs to Azure Monitor
Related resources
Modern analytics architecture with Azure Databricks
Ingestion, ETL (extract, transform, load), and stream processing pipelines with Azure Databricks
Orchestrate MLOps by using Azure Databricks
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources