Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Plan and manage costs for Azure Blob Storage
Article
2024-09-11
7 contributors
In this article
This article helps you plan and manage costs for Azure Blob Storage.
First, become familiar with each billing meter and how to find the price of each meter. Then, you can estimate your cost by using the Azure pricing calculator. Use cost management features to set budgets and monitor costs. You can also review forecasted costs, and monitor spending trends to identify areas where you might want to act.
Keep in mind that costs for Blob Storage are only a portion of the monthly costs in your Azure bill. Although this article explains how to estimate and manage costs for Blob Storage, you're billed for all Azure services and resources used for your Azure subscription, including the third-party services. After you're familiar with managing costs for Blob Storage, you can apply similar methods to manage costs for all the Azure services used in your subscription.
Understand the full billing model for Azure Blob Storage
Azure Blob Storage runs on Azure infrastructure that accrues costs when you deploy new resources. It's important to understand that there could be other additional infrastructure costs that might accrue.
How you're charged for Azure Blob Storage
When you create or use Blob Storage resources, you're charged for the following meters:
1Applies only to accounts that have a hierarchical namespace.2Applies only when copying data to another region.3Applies only to the cool, cold, and archive tiers.4Applies only if you enable the feature.
At the end of your billing cycle, the charges for each meter are summed. Your bill or invoice shows a section for all Azure Blob Storage costs. There's a separate line item for each meter.
Data storage and metadata are billed per GB on a monthly basis. Most metadata is stored as part of the blob and includes properties and key-value pairs. The metadata that is associated with blobs in the archive tier is stored separately in the cold tier. That way, users can list the blob and its properties, metadata, and index tags. Because the size of metadata doesn't exceed 8 KB in size, its cost is relatively insignificant as a percent of total storage capacity.
Blob index tags are stored as a sub resource in the hot tier, and have their own billing meter. TheIndexmeter applies only to accounts that have a hierarchical namespace as a means to bill for the space required to facilitate a hierarchical file structure including the access control lists (ACLs) associated with objects in that structure. Data associated with the index is always stored in the hot tier.
For data and metadata stored for less than a month, you can estimate the impact on your monthly bill by calculating the cost of each GB per day. The number of days in any given month varies. Therefore, to obtain the best approximation of your costs in a given month, make sure to divide the monthly cost by the number of days that occur in that month.
Azure Blob Storage uses the following base-2 units of measurement to represent storage capacity: KiB, MiB, GiB, TiB, PiB. While the line items in your bill contain GB as a unit of measurement, those units are calculated by Azure Blob Storage as binary GB (GiB). For example, a line item on your bill that shows1forData Stored (GB/month)corresponds to 1 GiB per month of usage. The following table describes each base-2 unit:
For more information about how to calculate the cost of storage, seeThe cost to store data.
Each request made by a client arrives to the service in the form of a REST operation. You can monitor your resource logs to see which operations are executing against your data.
The pricing pages don't list a price for each individual operation but instead lists the price of an operationtype. To determine the price of an operation, you must first determine how that operation is classified in terms of its type. To trace alogged operationto aREST operationand then to an operationtype, seeMap each REST operation to a price.
The price that appears beside an operation type isn't the price you pay for each operation. In most cases, it's the price of10,000operations. To obtain the price of an individual operation, divide the price by10,000. For example, if the price for write operations is$0.055, then the price of an individual operation is$.0555/10,000=$0.0000055. You can estimate the cost to upload a file by multiplying the number write operations required to complete the upload by the cost of an individual transaction. To learn more, seeEstimate the cost of using Azure Blob Storage.
10,000
10,000
$0.055
$.0555
10,000
$0.0000055
Any data that leaves the Azure region incurs data transfer and network bandwidth charges. These charges commonly appear in scenarios where an account is configured for geo-redundant storage or when an object replication policy is configured to copy data to an account in another region. However, these charges also apply to data that is downloaded to an on-premises client. The price of network bandwidth doesn't appear in the Azure Storage pricing pages. To find the price of network bandwidth, seeBandwidth pricing.
There's no cost to enable Blob Storage features. There are only three features that incur a passive charge after you enable them (SFTP support, encryption scopes, and blob index tags). For all other features, you're billed for the storage space that is occupied by the output of a feature and the operations executed as a result of using the feature. For example, if you enable versioning, your bill reflects the cost to store versions and the cost to perform operations to list or retrieve versions. Some features have added meters. For a complete list, see theHow you're charged for Azure Blob Storagesection of this article.
You can prorate time-based meters if you use those features for less than a month. For example, Encryption scopes are billed on a monthly basis. Encryption scopes in place for less than a month, you can estimate the impact on your monthly bill by calculating the cost of each day. The number of days in any given month varies. Therefore, to obtain the best approximation of your costs in a given month, make sure to divide the monthly cost by the number of days that occur in that month.
Find the unit price for each meter
To find unit prices, open the correct pricing page and select the appropriate file structure. Then, apply the appropriate redundancy, region, and currency filters. Prices for each meter appear in a table. Prices differ based on other settings in your account such as data redundancy options, access tier and performance tier.
The correct pricing page and file structure matter mostly to the cost of reading and writing data as the cost to store data is essentially unchanged by those selections. To accurately estimate the cost of reading and writing data, start by determining whichStorage account endpointclients, applications, and workloads will use to read and write data.
Requests to the blob service endpoint
The format of the blob service endpoint ishttps://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.netand is the most common endpoint used by tools and applications that interact with Blob Storage.
https://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.net
Requests can originate from any of these sources:
Clients that useBlob Storage REST APIsor Blob Storage APIs from an Azure Storage client library
Clients that useBlob Storage REST APIsor Blob Storage APIs from an Azure Storage client library
Transfers toNetwork File System (NFS) 3.0mounted containers
Transfers toNetwork File System (NFS) 3.0mounted containers
Transfers made by using theSSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)
Transfers made by using theSSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)
Hadoop workloads that use theWASBdriver
Hadoop workloads that use theWASBdriver
The correct pricing page for these requests is theBlock blob pricingpage.
Requests to this endpoint can also occur in accounts that have a hierarchical namespace. In fact, to use NFS 3.0 and SFTP protocols, you must first enable the hierarchical namespace feature of the account.
If your account has the hierarchical namespace feature enabled, make sure that theFile Structuredrop-down list is set toHierarchical Namespace (NFS v3.0, SFTP Protocol). Otherwise, make sure that it's set toFlat Namespace.
Requests to the Data Lake Storage endpoint
The format of the Data Lake Storage endpoint ishttps://<storage-account>.dfs.core.windows.netand is most common endpoint used by analytic workloads and applications. This endpoint is typically used with accounts that have a hierarchical namespace but not always.
https://<storage-account>.dfs.core.windows.net
Requests can originate from any of these sources:
Hadoop workloads that use theAzure Blob File System driver (ABFS)driver
Hadoop workloads that use theAzure Blob File System driver (ABFS)driver
Clients that useData Lake Storage REST APIsor Data Lake Storage APIs from an Azure Storage client library
Clients that useData Lake Storage REST APIsor Data Lake Storage APIs from an Azure Storage client library
The correct pricing page for these requests is theAzure Data Lake Storage pricingpage.
If your account doesn't have the hierarchical namespace feature enabled, but you expect clients, workloads, or applications to make requests over the Data Lake Storage endpoint of your account, then set theFile Structuredrop-down list toFlat Namespace. Otherwise, make sure that it's set toHierarchical Namespace.
Estimate costs
Use theAzure pricing calculatorto estimate costs before you create and begin transferring data to an Azure Storage account.
On theAzure pricing calculatorpage, choose theStorage Accountstile.
On theAzure pricing calculatorpage, choose theStorage Accountstile.
Scroll down the page and locate theStorage Accountssection of your estimate.
Scroll down the page and locate theStorage Accountssection of your estimate.
Choose options from the drop-down lists.As you modify the value of these drop-down lists, the cost estimate changes. That estimate appears in the upper corner as well as the bottom of the estimate.As you change the value of theTypedrop-down list, other options that appear on this worksheet change as well. Use the links in theMore Infosection to learn more about what each option means and how these options affect the price of storage-related operations.
Choose options from the drop-down lists.
As you modify the value of these drop-down lists, the cost estimate changes. That estimate appears in the upper corner as well as the bottom of the estimate.

As you change the value of theTypedrop-down list, other options that appear on this worksheet change as well. Use the links in theMore Infosection to learn more about what each option means and how these options affect the price of storage-related operations.
Modify the remaining options to see their effect on your estimate.TipSee these in-depth guides to help you predict and forecast costs:Estimating Pricing for Azure Block Blob DeploymentsEstimate the cost of archiving dataEstimate the cost of using AzCopy to transfer blobs
Modify the remaining options to see their effect on your estimate.
Tip
See these in-depth guides to help you predict and forecast costs:
Estimating Pricing for Azure Block Blob Deployments
Estimate the cost of archiving data
Estimate the cost of using AzCopy to transfer blobs
Using Azure Prepayment with Azure Blob Storage
You can pay for Azure Blob Storage charges with your Azure Prepayment (previously called monetary commitment) credit. However, you can't use Azure Prepayment credit to pay for charges for third party products and services including those from the Azure Marketplace.
Optimize costs
If you've been using Blob Storage for some time, you should periodically review the contents of your containers to identify opportunities to reduce your costs. By understanding how your blobs are stored, organized, and used in production, you can better optimize the tradeoffs between availability, performance, and cost of those blobs. See any of these articles to itemize and analyze your existing containers and blobs:
Tutorial: Analyze blob inventory reports
Tutorial: Calculate container statistics by using Databricks
Calculate blob count and total size per container using Azure Storage inventory
If you can model future capacity requirements, you can save money with Azure Storage reserved capacity. Azure Storage reserved capacity is available for most access tiers and offers you a discount on capacity for block blobs and for Azure Data Lake Storage data in standard storage accounts when you commit to a reservation for either one year or three years. A reservation provides a fixed amount of storage capacity for the term of the reservation. Azure Storage reserved capacity can significantly reduce your capacity costs for block blobs and Azure Data Lake Storage data. To learn more, seeOptimize costs for Blob Storage with reserved capacity.
You can also reduce costs by placing blob data into the most cost effective access tiers. Choose from three tiers that are designed to optimize your costs around data use. For example, thehottier has a higher storage cost but lower access cost. Therefore, if you plan to access data frequently, the hot tier might be the most cost-efficient choice. If you plan to access data less frequently, thecoldorarchivetier might make the most sense because it raises the cost of accessing data while reducing the cost of storing data. See any of these articles:
Access tiers for blob data
Best practices for using blob access tiers
Estimate the cost of archiving data
Use lifecycle management policies to periodically move data between tiers to save the most money. These policies can move data to by using rules that you specify. For example, you might create a rule that moves blobs to the archive tier if that blob hasn't been modified in 90 days. By creating policies that adjust the access tier of your data, you can design the least expensive storage options for your needs. To learn more, seeManage the Azure Blob Storage lifecycle.
Create budgets
You can createbudgetsto manage costs and create alerts that automatically notify stakeholders of spending anomalies and overspending risks. Alerts are based on spending compared to budget and cost thresholds. Budgets and alerts are created for Azure subscriptions and resource groups, so they're useful as part of an overall cost monitoring strategy. However, they might have limited functionality to manage individual Azure service costs like the cost of Azure Storage because they're designed to track costs at a higher level.
Monitor costs
As you use Azure resources with Azure Storage, you incur costs. Resource usage unit costs vary by time intervals (seconds, minutes, hours, and days) or by unit usage (bytes, megabytes, and so on.) Costs are incurred as soon as usage of Azure Storage starts. You can see the costs in thecost analysispane in the Azure portal.
When you use cost analysis, you can view Azure Storage costs in graphs and tables for different time intervals. Some examples are by day, current and prior month, and year. You can also view costs against budgets and forecasted costs. Switching to longer views over time can help you identify spending trends and see where overspending might have occurred. If you've created budgets, you can also easily see where they exceeded.
Note
Cost analysis supports different kinds of Azure account types. To view the full list of supported account types, seeUnderstand Cost Management data. To view cost data, you need at least read access for your Azure account. For information about assigning access to Microsoft Cost Management data, seeAssign access to data.
To view Azure Storage costs in cost analysis:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Open theCost Management + Billingwindow, selectCost managementfrom the menu and then selectCost analysis. You can then change the scope for a specific subscription from theScopedropdown.
Open theCost Management + Billingwindow, selectCost managementfrom the menu and then selectCost analysis. You can then change the scope for a specific subscription from theScopedropdown.

To view only costs for Azure Storage, selectAdd filterand then selectService name. Then, choosestoragefrom the list.Here's an example showing costs for just Azure Storage:
To view only costs for Azure Storage, selectAdd filterand then selectService name. Then, choosestoragefrom the list.
Here's an example showing costs for just Azure Storage:

In the preceding example, you see the current cost for the service. Costs by Azure regions (locations) and by resource group also appear.
You can add other filters as well (For example: a filter to see costs for specific storage accounts).
Export cost data
You can alsoexport your cost datato a storage account. This is helpful when you need or others to do additional data analysis for costs. For example, a finance team can analyze the data using Excel or Power BI. You can export your costs on a daily, weekly, or monthly schedule and set a custom date range. Exporting cost data is the recommended way to retrieve cost datasets.
Avoid billing surprises
Some actions, such as changing the default access tier of your account, can lead to costs that you might not expect. While articles about each feature contain information about how to avoid unexpected costs, this table captures common causes.
Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
SeeManaging costs FAQ.
Next steps
Learn more on how pricing works with Azure Storage. SeeAzure Storage Overview pricing.
Understanding how your blobs and containers are stored, organized, and used in production so that you better optimize the tradeoffs between cost and performance. SeeTutorial: Analyze blob inventory reports.
Optimize costs for Blob Storage with reserved capacity.
Learnhow to optimize your cloud investment with Microsoft Cost Management.
Learn more about managing costs withcost analysis.
Learn about how toprevent unexpected costs.
Take theCost Managementguided learning course.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources