Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Understand business glossary features in the classic Microsoft Purview governance portal
Article
2025-01-28
4 contributors
In this article
Note
Microsoft Purview Data Catalog (classic) and Data Health Insights (classic) are no longer taking on new customers and these services, previously Azure Purview, are now in customer support mode.
Tip
Microsoft Purview has a new experience! If you're a new Microsoft Purview customer, or if you want more information, see ourarticle on the new portalor the article about our newdata governance experienceand our newglossary terms.
Aglossaryprovides vocabulary for business users. It consists of business terms that can be related to each other and allows them to be categorized so that they can be understood in different contexts. These terms can be then mapped to assets like a database, tables, columns etc. This helps in abstracting the technical jargon associated with the data repositories and allows the business user to discover and work with data in the vocabulary that is more familiar to them.
You can find Microsoft Purview's classic glossaries in theclassic Microsoft Purview governance portalin the Data Catalog underBusiness Glossary.

Abusiness glossaryis a collection of terms. Each term represents an object in an organization and it's highly likely that there are multiple terms representing the same object. A customer could also be referred to as client, purchaser, or buyer. These multiple terms have a relationship with each other. The relationship between these terms could be:
synonyms - different terms with the same definition
related - different name with similar definition
The same term can also imply multiple business objects. It's important that each term is well-defined and clearly understood within the organization.
Relationships between terms
Microsoft Purview supports these out-of-the-box relationships for terms:
Parent/child term
Acronym
Synonyms
Related terms
Relationship definitions in the glossary are bi-directional:Every relationship between terms is a two-way relationship. This means that if term A is related to term B, then term B is also related to term A.
Anytime you populate a relationship in one direction, Purview automatically adds the reverse relationship for you. For example, if you add term A as a synonym for term B, Purview automatically adds term B as a synonym for term A.
Glossary vs classification vs sensitivity labels
While glossary terms, classifications and labels are annotations to a data asset, each one of them has a different meaning in the context of catalog.
Glossary
As stated above, Business glossary term defines the business vocabulary for an organization and helps in bridging the gap between various departments in your company.
Classifications
Classifications are annotations that can be assigned to entities. The flexibility of classifications enables you to use them for multiple scenarios such as:
understanding the nature of data stored in the data assets
defining access control policies
Microsoft Purview has more than 200 system classifiers today and you can define your own classifiers in catalog. As part of the scanning process, we automatically detect these classifications and apply them to data assets and schemas. However, you can override them at any point of time. The human overrides are never replaced by automated scans.
Sensitivity labels
Sensitivity labels are a type of annotation that allows you to classify and protect your organization's data, without hindering productivity and collaboration. Sensitivity labels are used to identify the categories of classification types within your organizational data, and group the policies that you wish to apply to each category. Microsoft Purview makes use of the same sensitive information types as Microsoft 365, which allows you to stretch your existing security policies and protection across your entire content and data estate. The same labels can be shared across Microsoft Office products and data assets in Microsoft Purview.
For more information about sensitivity labels, see:Learn about sensitivity labels
Next steps
Create and manage glossaries
Create and manage terms
Manage term templates
Browse the data catalog in Microsoft Purview
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources