Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Manage hybrid infrastructure at scale with Azure Arc
Article
2025-01-09
4 contributors
In this article
Azure Lighthousecan help service providers use Azure Arc to manage customers' hybrid environments, with visibility across all managed Microsoft Entra tenants.
Azure Archelps simplify complex and distributed environments across on-premises, edge and multicloud, enabling deployment of Azure services anywhere and extending Azure management to any infrastructure.
WithAzure Arc–enabled servers, customers can manage Windows and Linux machines hosted outside of Azure on their corporate network, in the same way they manage native Azure virtual machines. Through Azure Lighthouse, service providers can then manage these connected non-Azure machines along with their customers' Azure resources.
Azure Arc–enabled Kuberneteslets customers attach and configure Kubernetes clusters outside of Azure. Through Azure Lighthouse, service providers can connect Kubernetes clusters and manage them along with their customer's Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) clusters and other Azure resources.
Tip
Though we refer to service providers and customers in this topic, this guidance also applies toenterprises using Azure Lighthouse to manage multiple tenants.
Manage hybrid servers at scale with Azure Arc–enabled servers
As a service provider, you can connect and disconnect on-premises Windows Server or Linux machines outside Azure to your customer's subscription. When yougenerate a script to connect a server, use the--user-tenant-idparameter to specify your managing tenant, with the--tenant-idparameter indicating the customer's tenant.
--user-tenant-id
--tenant-id
When viewing resources for a delegated subscription in the Azure portal, you'll see these connected machines labeled withAzure Arc. You can manage these connected machines using Azure constructs, such as Azure Policy and tagging, just as you would manage the customer's Azure resources. You can also work across customer tenants to manage all connected machines together.
For example, you canensure the same set of policies are applied across customers' hybrid machines. You canuse Microsoft Defender for Cloud to monitor complianceacross all of your customers' hybrid environments, oruse Azure Monitor to collect data directlyinto a Log Analytics workspace.Virtual machine extensionscan be deployed to non-Azure Windows and Linux VMs, simplifying management of your customers' hybrid machines.
Manage hybrid Kubernetes clusters at scale with Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes
You can manage Kubernetes clusters that areconnected to a customer's subscription with Azure Arc, just as if they were running in Azure.
If your customer uses a service principal account to onboard Kubernetes clusters to Azure Arc, you can access this account so that you canonboard and manage clusters. To do so, a user in the managing tenant must have theKubernetes Cluster - Azure Arc Onboarding built-in rolewhen the subscription containing the service principal account wasonboarded to Azure Lighthouse.
You can deployconfigurations and Helm chartsusingGitOps for connected clusters.
You can alsomonitor connected clusterswith Azure Monitor, use tagging to organize clusters, anduse Azure Policy for Kubernetesto manage and report on compliance state.
Next steps
Explore theAzure Arc Jumpstart.
Learn aboutsupported cloud operations for Azure Arc-enabled servers.
Learn aboutaccessing connected Kubernetes clusters through the Azure portal.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources