Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Virtual machine extension management with Azure Arc-enabled servers
Article
2025-01-16
20 contributors
In this article
Virtual machine (VM) extensions are small applications that provide post-deployment configuration and automation tasks on Azure VMs. For example, if a virtual machine requires software installation, antivirus protection, or the running of a script, you can use a VM extension.
With Azure Arc-enabled servers, you can deploy, remove, and update Azure VM extensions to non-Azure Windows and Linux VMs. This ability simplifies the management of your hybrid machines through their life cycle. You can manage VM extensions by using the following methods on your hybrid machines or servers managed by Azure Arc-enabled servers:
Azure portal
Azure CLI
Azure PowerShell
Azure Resource Manager templates
Note
Azure Arc-enabled servers doesn't support deploying and managing VM extensions to Azure virtual machines. For Azure VMs, see theVM extension overviewarticle.
Currently, you can update extensions only from the Azure portal or the Azure CLI. Updating extensions from Azure PowerShell or an Azure Resource Manager template is not supported at this time.
Key benefits
VM extension support for Azure Arc-enabled servers provides the following key benefits:
Collect log data for analysis withAzure Monitor Logsby enabling the Azure Monitor agent VM extension. You can do complex analysis across log data from various sources.
Collect log data for analysis withAzure Monitor Logsby enabling the Azure Monitor agent VM extension. You can do complex analysis across log data from various sources.
WithVM insights, analyze the performance of your Windows and Linux VMs, and monitor their processes and dependencies on other resources and external processes. You achieve these capabilities by enabling the VM extensions for both the Azure Monitor agent and the Dependency agent.
WithVM insights, analyze the performance of your Windows and Linux VMs, and monitor their processes and dependencies on other resources and external processes. You achieve these capabilities by enabling the VM extensions for both the Azure Monitor agent and the Dependency agent.
Download and run scripts on hybrid connected machines by using the Custom Script Extension. This extension is useful for post-deployment configuration, software installation, or any other configuration or management tasks.
Download and run scripts on hybrid connected machines by using the Custom Script Extension. This extension is useful for post-deployment configuration, software installation, or any other configuration or management tasks.
Automatically refresh certificates stored inAzure Key Vault.
Automatically refresh certificates stored inAzure Key Vault.
Availability
VM extension functionality is available only in thesupported regions. Be sure to onboard your machine in one of these regions.
Additionally, you can configure lists of the extensions that you want to allow and block on servers. For more information, seeExtension allowlists and blocklists.
Extensions
In this release, we support the following VM extensions on Windows and Linux machines.
To learn about the Azure Connected Machine agent package and the Extension agent component, seeAgent overview.
Note
The Desired State Configuration VM extension is no longer available for Azure Arc-enabled servers. We recommend that youmigrate to machine configurationor use the Custom Script Extension to manage the post-deployment configuration of your server.
Azure Arc-enabled servers supports moving machines with one or more VM extensions installed between resource groups or another Azure subscription without experiencing any impact to their configuration. The source and destination subscriptions must exist within the sameMicrosoft Entra tenant. This support is enabled starting with the Connected Machine agent version 1.8.21197.005. For more information about moving resources and considerations before you proceed, seeMove resources to a new resource group or subscription.
Windows extensions
Linux extensions
Prerequisites
This feature depends on the following Azure resource providers in your subscription:
Microsoft.HybridCompute
Microsoft.GuestConfiguration
If they aren't already registered, follow the steps inRegister Azure resource providers.
Review the documentation for each VM extension referenced in the previous tables to understand if it has any network or system requirements. This effort can help prevent connectivity issues with an Azure service or feature that relies on that VM extension.
Required permissions
To deploy an extension to Azure Arc-enabled servers, a user needs the following permissions:
microsoft.hybridcompute/machines/read
microsoft.hybridcompute/machines/read
microsoft.hybridcompute/machines/extensions/read
microsoft.hybridcompute/machines/extensions/read
microsoft.hybridcompute/machines/extensions/write
microsoft.hybridcompute/machines/extensions/write
The roleAzure Connected Machine Resource Administratorincludes the permissions required to deploy extensions. It also includes permission to delete Azure Arc-enabled server resources.
Azure Monitor agent VM extension
Before you install the extension, we suggest that you review thedeployment options for the Azure Monitor agentto understand the available methods and which one meets your needs.
Key Vault VM extension
The Key Vault VM extension doesn't support the following Linux operating systems:
Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7 (x64)
Amazon Linux 2 (x64)
Deploying the Key Vault VM extension is supported only when you're using:
The Azure CLI
Azure PowerShell
An Azure Resource Manager template
Before you deploy the extension, you need to complete the following steps:
Create a vault and a certificate(self-signed or imported).
Create a vault and a certificate(self-signed or imported).
Grant the Azure Arc-enabled server access to the certificate secret. If you're using theAzure role-based access control (RBAC) preview, search for the name of the Azure Arc resource and assign it theKey Vault Secrets User (preview)role. If you're using aKey Vault access policy, assign secretGetpermissions to the Azure Arc resource's system-assigned identity.
Grant the Azure Arc-enabled server access to the certificate secret. If you're using theAzure role-based access control (RBAC) preview, search for the name of the Azure Arc resource and assign it theKey Vault Secrets User (preview)role. If you're using aKey Vault access policy, assign secretGetpermissions to the Azure Arc resource's system-assigned identity.
Connected Machine agent
Verify that your machine matches thesupported versionsof Windows and Linux operating systems for the Azure Connected Machine agent.
The minimum version of the Connected Machine agent that's supported with this feature on Windows and Linux is the 1.0 release.
To upgrade your machine to the required version of the agent, seeUpgrade the agent.
Availability of operating system extensions
The following extensions are available for Windows and Linux machines.
Windows extension availability
Linux extension availability
For the regional availabilities of Azure services and VM extensions that are available for Azure Arc-enabled servers, refer to theAzure Global Product Availability Roadmap.
Related content
You can deploy, manage, and remove VM extensions by using theAzure CLI,Azure PowerShell, theAzure portal, orAzure Resource Manager templates.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources