Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Online backup and on-demand data restore in Azure Cosmos DB
Article
2024-08-14
14 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:NoSQLMongoDBCassandraGremlinTable
Azure Cosmos DB automatically takes backups of your data at regular intervals. The automatic backups are taken without affecting the performance or availability of the database operations. All the backups are stored separately in a storage service. The automatic backups are helpful in scenarios when you accidentally delete or update your Azure Cosmos DB account, database, or container and later require the data recovery. Azure Cosmos DB backups are encrypted with Microsoft managed service keys. These backups are transferred over a secure non-public network. Which means, backup data remains encrypted while transferred over the wire and at rest. Backups of an account in a given region are uploaded to storage accounts in the same region.
Backup modes
There are two backup modes:
Continuous backup mode–  This mode has two tiers. One tier includes 7-day retention and the second includes 30-day retention. Continuous backup allows you to restore to any point of time within either 7 or 30 days either intonew accountorexisting account. You can choose this appropriate tier while creating an Azure Cosmos DB account. For more information about the tiers, seeintroduction to continuous backup mode. To enable continuous backup, see the appropriate articles usingAzure portal,PowerShell,CLI, orAzure Resource Manager. You can alsomigrate the accounts from periodic to continuous mode.
Continuous backup mode–  This mode has two tiers. One tier includes 7-day retention and the second includes 30-day retention. Continuous backup allows you to restore to any point of time within either 7 or 30 days either intonew accountorexisting account. You can choose this appropriate tier while creating an Azure Cosmos DB account. For more information about the tiers, seeintroduction to continuous backup mode. To enable continuous backup, see the appropriate articles usingAzure portal,PowerShell,CLI, orAzure Resource Manager. You can alsomigrate the accounts from periodic to continuous mode.
Periodic backup mode- This mode is the default backup mode for all existing accounts. In this mode, backup is taken at a periodic interval and the data is restored by creating a request with the support team. In this mode, you configure a backup interval and retention for your account. The maximum retention period extends to a month. The minimum backup interval can be one hour.  To learn more, seeperiodic backup mode.NoteIf you configure a new account with continuous backup, you can do self-service restore via Azure portal, PowerShell, or CLI. If your account is configured in continuous mode, you can’t switch it back to periodic mode.
Periodic backup mode- This mode is the default backup mode for all existing accounts. In this mode, backup is taken at a periodic interval and the data is restored by creating a request with the support team. In this mode, you configure a backup interval and retention for your account. The maximum retention period extends to a month. The minimum backup interval can be one hour.  To learn more, seeperiodic backup mode.
Note
If you configure a new account with continuous backup, you can do self-service restore via Azure portal, PowerShell, or CLI. If your account is configured in continuous mode, you can’t switch it back to periodic mode.
For Azure Synapse Link enabled accounts, analytical store data isn't included in the backups and restores. When Azure Synapse Link is enabled, Azure Cosmos DB will continue to automatically take backups of your data in the transactional store at a scheduled backup interval. Within an analytical store, automatic backup and restore of your data isn't supported at this time.
Immutability of Cosmos DB backups
Cosmos DB backups are completely managed by the platform. Actions like restore, update backup retention or redundancy change are controlled via permission model managed by database account administrator. Cosmos DB backups are not exposed to any human actors, customers or any other module for listing, deletion, or disabling of backups. The backups are encrypted and stored in storage accounts secured by rotating certificate-based access. These backups are only accessed by restore module to restore specific backup nondestructively when a customer initiates a restore. These actions are logged and audited regularly. Customers who choseCMK (customer managed key), their data and backup have protection through envelope encryption.  Backups kept under retention policy are:
Not alterable (no modifications are permitted to the backups).
Not allowed to be re-encrypted.
Not allowed to be deleted.
Not allowed to be disabled
Frequently asked questions
Can I restore from an account A in subscription S1 to account B in a subscription S2?
No. You can only restore between accounts within the same subscription.
Can I restore into an account that has fewer partitions or low provisioned throughput than the source account?
No. You can't restore into an account with lower RU/s or fewer partitions.
Is periodic backup mode supported for Azure Synapse Link enabled accounts?
Yes. However, analytical store data isn't included in backups and restores. When Azure Synapse Link is enabled on a database account, Azure Cosmos DB will automatically back up your data in the transactional store at the scheduled backup interval.
Is periodic backup mode supported for analytical store enabled containers?
Yes, but only for the regular transactional data. Within an analytical store, backup and restore of your data isn't supported at this time.
Next steps
Next you can learn about how to configure and manage periodic and continuous backup modes for your account:
Configure and manage periodic backuppolicy.
What iscontinuous backupmode?
Enable continuous backup usingAzure portal,PowerShell,CLI, orAzure Resource Manager.
Restore continuous backup into a new account usingAzure portal,PowerShell,CLI, orAzure Resource Manager.
Migrate to an account from periodic backup to continuous backup.
Manage permissionsrequired to restore data with continuous backup mode.
Resource model of continuous backup mode
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources