Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Virtual Machines monitoring data reference
Article
2025-01-24
7 contributors
In this article
This article contains all the monitoring reference information for this service.
SeeMonitor Azure Virtual Machinesfor details on the data you can collect for Azure Virtual Machines and how to use it.
Metrics
This section lists all the automatically collected platform metrics for this service. These metrics are also part of the global list ofall platform metrics supported in Azure Monitor.
For information on metric retention, seeAzure Monitor Metrics overview.
Important
Metrics for the guest operating system (guest OS) that runs in a virtual machine (VM) aren't listed here. Guest OS metrics must be collected through one or more agents that run on or as part of the guest operating system. Guest OS metrics include performance counters that track guest CPU percentage or memory usage, both of which are frequently used for autoscaling or alerting.
Host OS metrics are available and listed in the following tables. Host OS metrics relate to the Hyper-V session that's hosting your guest OS session. For more information, seeGuest OS and host OS metrics.
Supported metrics for Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
The following table lists the metrics available for the Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines resource type.
All columns might not be present in every table.
Some columns might be beyond the viewing area of the page. SelectExpand tableto view all available columns.
Table headings
Category- The metrics group or classification.
Metric- The metric display name as it appears in the Azure portal.
Name in REST API- The metric name as referred to in theREST API.
Unit- Unit of measure.
Aggregation- The defaultaggregationtype. Valid values: Average (Avg), Minimum (Min), Maximum (Max), Total (Sum), Count.
Dimensions-Dimensionsavailable for the metric.
Time Grains-Intervalsat which the metric is sampled. For example,PT1Mindicates that the metric is sampled every minute,PT30Mevery 30 minutes,PT1Hevery hour, and so on.
PT1M
PT30M
PT1H
DS Export- Whether the metric is exportable to Azure Monitor Logs via diagnostic settings. For information on exporting metrics, seeCreate diagnostic settings in Azure Monitor.
Available Memory Bytes
Available Memory Percentage
CPU Credits Consumed
CPU Credits Remaining
Data Disk Bandwidth Consumed Percentage
LUN
Data Disk IOPS Consumed Percentage
LUN
Data Disk Latency
LUN
Data Disk Max Burst Bandwidth
LUN
Data Disk Max Burst IOPS
LUN
Data Disk Queue Depth
LUN
Data Disk Read Bytes/sec
LUN
Data Disk Read Operations/Sec
LUN
Data Disk Target Bandwidth
LUN
Data Disk Target IOPS
LUN
Data Disk Used Burst BPS Credits Percentage
LUN
Data Disk Used Burst IO Credits Percentage
LUN
Data Disk Write Bytes/sec
LUN
Data Disk Write Operations/Sec
LUN
Disk Read Bytes
Disk Read Operations/Sec
Disk Write Bytes
Disk Write Operations/Sec
Inbound Flows
Inbound Flows Maximum Creation Rate
Network In
Network In Total
Network Out
Network Out Total
OS Disk Bandwidth Consumed Percentage
LUN
OS Disk IOPS Consumed Percentage
LUN
OS Disk Latency
OS Disk Max Burst Bandwidth
LUN
OS Disk Max Burst IOPS
LUN
OS Disk Queue Depth
OS Disk Read Bytes/sec
OS Disk Read Operations/Sec
OS Disk Target Bandwidth
LUN
OS Disk Target IOPS
LUN
OS Disk Used Burst BPS Credits Percentage
LUN
OS Disk Used Burst IO Credits Percentage
LUN
OS Disk Write Bytes/sec
OS Disk Write Operations/Sec
Outbound Flows
Outbound Flows Maximum Creation Rate
Percentage CPU
Premium Data Disk Cache Read Hit
LUN
Premium Data Disk Cache Read Miss
LUN
Premium OS Disk Cache Read Hit
Premium OS Disk Cache Read Miss
Temp Disk Latency
Temp Disk Queue Depth
Temp Disk Read Bytes/sec
Temp Disk Read Operations/Sec
Temp Disk Write Bytes/sec
Temp Disk Write Operations/Sec
VM Cached Bandwidth Consumed Percentage
VM Cached IOPS Consumed Percentage
VM Local Used Burst BPS Credits Percentage
VM Local Used Burst IO Credits Percentage
VM Remote Used Burst BPS Credits Percentage
VM Remote Used Burst IO Credits Percentage
VM Uncached Bandwidth Consumed Percentage
VM Uncached IOPS Consumed Percentage
VmAvailabilityMetric
Context
For an example that shows how to collect thePercentage CPUmetric from a VM, seeGet virtual machine usage metrics using the REST API.
VM availability metric (preview)
The VM availability metric is currently in public preview. This metric value indicates whether a machine is currently running and available. You can use the metric to trend availability over time and to alert if the machine is stopped. VM availability displays the following values.
The VM availability metric is computed based on an aggregate of different signals from the host.
To learn how to use the VM availability metric to monitor Azure Virtual Machine availability, seeUse Azure Monitor to monitor Azure Virtual Machine availability.
Context dimensioninforms whether VM availability was influenced due to Azure or user orchestrated activity. It can assume values ofPlatform,Customer, orUnknown.
Metric dimensions
For information about what metric dimensions are, seeMulti-dimensional metrics.
The dimension Logical Unit Number (LUN) is associated with some of the preceding metrics.
LUN
Azure Monitor Logs tables
This section lists the Azure Monitor Logs tables relevant to this service, which are available for query by Log Analytics using Kusto queries. The tables contain resource log data and possibly more depending on what is collected and routed to them.
Activity log
The linked table lists the operations that can be recorded in the activity log for this service. These operations are a subset ofall the possible resource provider operations in the activity log.
For more information on the schema of activity log entries, seeActivity Log schema.
The following table lists a few example operations that relate to creating VMs in the activity log. For a complete list of operations, seeMicrosoft.Compute resource provider operations.
Related content
SeeMonitor Virtual Machinesfor a description of monitoring Virtual Machines.
SeeMonitor Azure resources with Azure Monitorfor details on monitoring Azure resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources