Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data governance with Microsoft Purview
Article
2025-02-20
1 contributor
In this article
Data governance is how you ensure that the data you use in your business operations, reports, and analysis is discoverable, accurate, trusted, and protected. With ever-evolving regulations combined with the proliferation of AI, and regulations for AI, data governance is as critical as data security.
Managing the quality of your data in the era of AI is essential. When your AI systems ingest trusted, high quality data, you have accurate insights for making sound business decisions. But managing data quality is time-consuming. Data professionals often spend most their time simply finding, cleaning, and organizing data, instead of using the data that's clean and trusted.
Microsoft Purview data governance solutions, Unified Catalog and Data Map, deliver a modern data governance experience to provide comprehensive visibility, data confidence, and responsible innovation by streamlining metadata from disparate catalogs and sources. With Unified Catalog at the center of your day-to-day operations, your organization can experience comprehensive visibility, data confidence, and responsible innovation to help you achieve greater business value in the era of AI.
Data governance solutions
Microsoft Purview data governance involves two primary solutions:
Microsoft Purview Data Map
Microsoft Purview Unified Catalog
Data Map is what you use to scan all your assets and multicloud sources to capture metadata. Unified Catalog is a searchable catalog of your scanned data where you curate, grant access to, and improve the health of your data. The catalog is a software as a service (SaaS) experience based on a single-tenant model, providing end-to-end capabilities for curating data, managing data quality and health, and granting users in your organization access to data. With a user-friendly and modern experience, Unified Catalog helps organizations achieve greater business value in the era of AI through high quality data.
To get an overview, check outthis videoexplaining Microsoft Purview data governance capabilities, how to set up for success, and the day-to-day management experience.
Important
As you work with Data Map and Unified Catalog, keep these points in mind:
All data in Data Map and Unified Catalog ismetadata, not the underlying data itself.
None of the permissions or roles in Data Map or Unified Catalog provide access to underlying data itself.
Federated approach to data governance
A federated approach to data governance is a middle ground between a centralized and a decentralized approach. An organization's central data office sets the rules, while individuals in various roles and departments who use the data and understand its function are entrusted to govern that data appropriately. The federated model ensures that there's centralized oversight and helps unlock business innovation by facilitating how users request access to the data they need.

User-friendly tools for data professionals
An effective system of data governance empowers your organization's data professionals to easily manage, discover, and access data. Microsoft Purview data governance solutions are built for each role performed in your organization. Business domain experts can accelerate data value while your data office and stewards provide the standards for consistent operations and can maintain commonalities.
Central data office: Establishes and ensures governance policies, active metadata, compliance, and insights into overall governance health.
Data consumers: Quickly find and use relevant, trusted datasets through streamlined access request workflow.
Data owners: Register data assets for use, manage classifications and access, and ensure high quality standards.
Data stewards: Ensure data quality, seamless data discovery, glossary, consistency, and lineage. Work with central data office.
Key capabilities
Simplify visibility across disparate catalogs, data sources, data management, and data security with these capabilities:
Unified Catalog, providing AI-enabled recommendations for data quality and data curation.
Data products within the Unified Catalog, which are groups of assets with a use case that can be shard with data consumers.
Actionable oversight that helps you analyze and track data health while ensuring users have access to the data they need.
Maintain confidence in your organization's data with built-in data quality and data lineage capabilities aligned to industry standards and policies:
Governance domains of data products and business concepts for easier access and use. Use governance controls across your data estate to complement the domains set up in other technical catalogs. Establish accountability for the area of your data estate.
Data lineage helps you easily see the relationship between the data products and any assets associated with them to identify the root cause of quality issues.
Data quality experiences built-in to empower data owners to oversee the quality of their data ecosystem and facilitate actions for improvement.
Responsibly unlock business value with easier data discovery and actionable insights with these capabilities:
Role-based access controls to ensure the right people have access to the right data through reader and owner level rights.
Simplified access and discovery by searching on business context and natural language, with help from Security Copilot.
Quick access to analytics with Purview Analytics in OneLake, so you can export data from Unified Catalog and import it into OneLake for business users running analytics in Microsoft Fabric.
Tip
VisitLearn about Unified Catalogfor detailed information about features and how to get started using the catalog.
Workflow at a glance
There are different approaches your organization can take to start building a data governance practice. Listed below are the overarching steps involved in setting up data governance with Microsoft Purview:
Assign a user in your organization the Data Governance Administrator role, which grants permissions to assign roles to other users in your organization for key governance tasks and data curation.
Using Data Map, scan your data assets and multicloud sources in Data Map to capture metadata.
In Unified Catalog, build governance domains and curate data products.
Connect your data with business concepts, such as objectives and key results (OKRs) and glossary terms.
Improve data quality and remove data issues to improve data health.
Tip
We've mapped out suggested paths to help you get started depending on your situation atPlan for data governance.
Billing
Before you get started, review thepricing model for Microsoft Purview data governance solutions.
Getting started
If you're ready to begin, use these resources to get started:
Learn how toplan for data governance.
VisitGet startedto view detailed instructions with links to deeper technical content.
Review theroles and permissionsneeded for users in your organization who play a role in data governance.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources