Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Plan and manage costs for Azure SQL Database
Article
2023-02-13
7 contributors
In this article
This article describes how you plan for and manage costs for Azure SQL Database.
First, you use the Azure pricing calculator to add Azure resources, and review the estimated costs. After you've started using Azure SQL Database resources, use Cost Management features to set budgets and monitor costs. You can also review forecasted costs and identify spending trends to identify areas where you might want to act. Costs for Azure SQL Database are only a portion of the monthly costs in your Azure bill. Although this article explains how to plan for and manage costs for Azure SQL Database, you're billed for all Azure services and resources used in your Azure subscription, including any third-party services.
Prerequisites
Cost analysis supports most Azure account types, but not all of them. To view the full list of supported account types, seeUnderstand Cost Management data. To view cost data, you need at least read access for an Azure account.
For information about assigning access to Azure Cost Management data, seeAssign access to data.
SQL Database initial cost considerations
When working with Azure SQL Database, there are several cost-saving features to consider:
vCore or DTU purchasing models
Azure SQL Database supports two purchasing models: vCore and DTU. The way you get charged varies between the purchasing models so it's important to understand the model that works best for your workload when planning and considering costs. For information about vCore and DTU purchasing models, seeChoose between the vCore and DTU purchasing models.
Provisioned or serverless
In the vCore purchasing model, Azure SQL Database also supports two types of compute tiers: provisioned throughput and serverless. The way you get charged for each compute tier varies so it's important to understand what works best for your workload when planning and considering costs. For details, seevCore model overview - compute tiers.
In the provisioned compute tier of the vCore-based purchasing model, you can exchange your existing licenses for discounted rates. For details, seeAzure Hybrid Benefit (AHB).
Elastic pools
For environments with multiple databases that have varying and unpredictable usage demands, elastic pools can provide cost savings compared to provisioning the same number of single databases. For details, seeElastic pools.
Estimate Azure SQL Database costs
Use theAzure pricing calculatorto estimate costs for different Azure SQL Database configurations. For more information, seeAzure SQL Database pricing.
The information and pricing in the following image are for example purposes only:

You can also estimate how different Retention Policy options affect cost. The information and pricing in the following image are for example purposes only:

Understand the full billing model for Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Database runs on Azure infrastructure that accrues costs along with Azure SQL Database when you deploy the new resource. It's important to understand that additional infrastructure might accrue cost.
Azure SQL Database (except for serverless) is billed on a predictable, hourly rate. If the SQL database is active for less than one hour, you are billed for the highest service tier selected, provisioned storage, and IO that applied during that hour, regardless of usage or whether the database was active for less than an hour.
Billing depends on the SKU of your product, the generation hardware of your SKU, and the meter category. Azure SQL Database has the following possible SKUs:
Basic (B)
Standard (S)
Premium (P)
General Purpose (GP)
Business Critical (BC)
And for storage: geo-redundant storage (GRS), locally redundant storage (LRS), and zone-redundant storage (ZRS)
It's also possible to have a deprecated SKU from deprecated resource offerings
For more information, seevCore-based purchasing model,DTU-based purchasing model, orcompare purchasing models.
The following table shows the most common billing meters and their possible SKUs forsingle databases:
* In the DTU purchasing model, an initial set of storage for data and backups is provided at no additional cost. The size of the storage depends on the service tier selected. Extra data storage can be purchased in the standard and premium tiers. For more information, seeAzure SQL Database pricing.
The following table shows the most common billing meters and their possible SKUs forelastic pools:
* In the DTU purchasing model, an initial set of storage for data and backups is provided at no additional cost. The size of the storage depends on the service tier selected. Extra data storage can be purchased in the standard and premium tiers. For more information, seeAzure SQL Database pricing.
Using Monetary Credit with Azure SQL Database
You can pay for Azure SQL Database charges with your Azure Prepayment (previously called monetary commitment) credit. However, you can't use Azure Prepayment credit to pay for charges for third-party products and services including those from the Azure Marketplace.
Review estimated costs in the Azure portal
As you go through the process of creating an Azure SQL Database, you can see the estimated costs during configuration of the compute tier.
To access this screen, selectConfigure databaseon theBasicstab of theCreate SQL Databasepage. The information and pricing in the following image are for example purposes only:

If your Azure subscription has a spending limit, Azure prevents you from spending over your credit amount. As you create and use Azure resources, your credits are used. When you reach your credit limit, the resources that you deployed are disabled for the rest of that billing period. You can't change your credit limit, but you can remove it. For more information about spending limits, seeAzure spending limit.
Monitor costs
As you start using Azure SQL Database, you can see the estimated costs in the portal. Use the following steps to review the cost estimate:
Sign into the Azure portal and navigate to the resource group for your Azure SQL database. You can locate the resource group by navigating to your database and selectResource groupin theOverviewsection.
Sign into the Azure portal and navigate to the resource group for your Azure SQL database. You can locate the resource group by navigating to your database and selectResource groupin theOverviewsection.
In the menu, selectCost analysis.
In the menu, selectCost analysis.
ViewAccumulated costsand set the chart at the bottom toService name. This chart shows an estimate of your current SQL Database costs. To narrow costs for the entire page to Azure SQL Database, selectAdd filterand then, selectAzure SQL Database. The information and pricing in the following image are for example purposes only:
ViewAccumulated costsand set the chart at the bottom toService name. This chart shows an estimate of your current SQL Database costs. To narrow costs for the entire page to Azure SQL Database, selectAdd filterand then, selectAzure SQL Database. The information and pricing in the following image are for example purposes only:

From here, you can explore costs on your own. For more and information about the different cost analysis settings, seeStart analyzing costs.
Create budgets
You can createbudgetsto manage costs and createalertsthat automatically notify stakeholders of spending anomalies and overspending risks. Alerts are based on spending compared to budget and cost thresholds. Budgets and alerts are created for Azure subscriptions and resource groups, so they're useful as part of an overall cost monitoring strategy.
Budgets can be created with filters for specific resources or services in Azure if you want more granularity present in your monitoring. Filters help ensure that you don't accidentally create new resources. For more about the filter options when you create a budget, seeGroup and filter options.
Export cost data
You can alsoexport your cost datato a storage account. This is helpful when you need to do further data analysis on cost. For example, a finance team can analyze the data using Excel or Power BI. You can export your costs on a daily, weekly, or monthly schedule and set a custom date range. Exporting cost data is the recommended way to retrieve cost datasets.
Other ways to manage and reduce costs for Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Database also enables you to scale resources up or down to control costs based on your application needs. For details, seeDynamically scale database resources.
Save money by committing to a reservation for compute resources for one to three years. For details, seeSave costs for resources with Azure Reservations.
Next steps
Learnhow to optimize your cloud investment with Azure Cost Management.
Learn more about managing costs withcost analysis.
Learn about how toprevent unexpected costs.
Take theCost Managementguided learning course.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources