Automate API deployments with APIOps
APIOps is a methodology that applies the concepts of GitOps andDevOpsto API deployment. Like DevOps,APIOpshelps team members easily make changes and deploy them in an iterative and automated way. This architecture demonstrates how you can improve the entire API lifecycle and API quality by using APIOps.
Architecture

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Workflow
API operators run theextractor pipelineto synchronize the Git repository with the API Management instance and populate the Git repository with API Management objects in the required format.
API operators run theextractor pipelineto synchronize the Git repository with the API Management instance and populate the Git repository with API Management objects in the required format.
If an API change is detected in the API Management instance, a pull request (PR) is created for operators to review. Operators merge the changes into the Git repository.
If an API change is detected in the API Management instance, a pull request (PR) is created for operators to review. Operators merge the changes into the Git repository.
API developers clone the Git repository, create a branch, and create API definitions by using the OpenAPI Specification or tools of their choice.
API developers clone the Git repository, create a branch, and create API definitions by using the OpenAPI Specification or tools of their choice.
If a developer pushes changes to the repository, a PR is created for review.
If a developer pushes changes to the repository, a PR is created for review.
The PR can be automatically approved or reviewed, depending on the level of control that's required.
The PR can be automatically approved or reviewed, depending on the level of control that's required.
After changes are approved and merged, the publishing pipeline deploys the latest changes to the API Management instance.
After changes are approved and merged, the publishing pipeline deploys the latest changes to the API Management instance.
API operators create and modify API Management policies, diagnostics, products, and other relevant objects, and then commit the changes.
API operators create and modify API Management policies, diagnostics, products, and other relevant objects, and then commit the changes.
The changes are reviewed, and they're merged after approval.
The changes are reviewed, and they're merged after approval.
After merging the changes, the publishing pipeline deploys the changes by using the API-definitions process.
After merging the changes, the publishing pipeline deploys the changes by using the API-definitions process.
Components
Azure API Managementcreates consistent, modern API gateways for back-end services. Besides routing API calls to back ends, this platform also verifies credentials, enforces usage quotas, and logs metadata.
Azure API Managementcreates consistent, modern API gateways for back-end services. Besides routing API calls to back ends, this platform also verifies credentials, enforces usage quotas, and logs metadata.
Azure DevOpsis a service for managing your development lifecycle end-to-end, including planning and project management, code management, and continuing to build and release.
Azure DevOpsis a service for managing your development lifecycle end-to-end, including planning and project management, code management, and continuing to build and release.
Azure Pipelinesenables continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) to test and build your code and ship it to any target.
Azure Pipelinesenables continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) to test and build your code and ship it to any target.
Azure Reposis a set of version control tools, including standard Git, that you can use to manage your code.
Azure Reposis a set of version control tools, including standard Git, that you can use to manage your code.
Alternatives
This solution usesAzure Reposto provide Git functionality andAzure Pipelinesprovides the pipelines. You can use any comparable technologies.
Scenario details
APIOps uses version control to manage APIs and create an audit trail of changes to APIs, policies, and operations.
API developers who use an APIOps methodology review and audit APIs earlier and more frequently, catching and resolving deviations from API standards faster to improve specifications and API quality. The more APIs that you build and deploy with an APIOps approach, the greater the consistency between APIs.
This APIOps architecture usesAzure API Managementas the API management platform.Azure DevOpsorganizes API management.Azure Reposprovides Git functionality, andAzure Pipelinescreates the CI/CD pipeline.
Potential use cases
Any organization developing and managing APIs
Highly regulated industries: insurance, banking, finance, government
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that you can use to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeWell-Architected Framework.
Security
Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the misuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Security.
This solution provides several security-related benefits. Individual developers—and even operators—don't directly access the API Management instance to apply changes or updates. Instead, users push changes to a Git repository, and the extractor and publishing pipelines read and apply them to the API Management instance. This approach follows the security best practice ofleast privilegeby not giving teams write permissions to the API Management service instance. In diagnostic or troubleshooting scenarios, you can grant elevated permissions for a limited time on a case-by-case basis.
To make sure the API Management instances are using best practices for security, you can extend this solution to enforce API best practices by using third-party tools and unit testing. Teams can provide early feedback via PR review if the proposed changes to an API or policy violate standards.
Apart from the task of setting up repository permissions, consider implementing the following security measures in Git repositories that synchronize to API Management instances:
Pull Request (PR) Review: Use branches and protect the branches that represent the state of the API Management instances from having changes pushed to them directly. Require PRs to have at least one reviewer to enforce the four-eyes principle.
Immutable history: Only allow new commits on top of existing changes. Immutable history is especially important for auditing purposes.
Multi-factor authentication: Require your users to activate two-factor authentication.
Signed Commits: Allow only signed commits that can't be altered after the fact.
Cost Optimization
Cost Optimization focuses on ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Cost Optimization.
Use theAzure pricing calculatorto estimate costs.
Use theAzure pricing calculatorto estimate costs.
API Management offers the following tiers: Consumption, Developer, Basic, Standard, and Premium.
API Management offers the following tiers: Consumption, Developer, Basic, Standard, and Premium.
GitHub offers a free service. However, to use advanced security-related features, such as code owners or required reviewers, you need the Team plan. For more information, seeGitHub pricing.
GitHub offers a free service. However, to use advanced security-related features, such as code owners or required reviewers, you need the Team plan. For more information, seeGitHub pricing.
Operational Excellence
Operational Excellence covers the operations processes that deploy an application and keep it running in production. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Operational Excellence.
APIOps can increase DevOps productivity for API development and deployments. One of the most useful features is the ability to use Git operations to quickly roll back changes that behave unexpectedly. The commit graph contains all commits, so it can help with the post-mortem analysis.
API operators often manage multiple environments for the same set of APIs. It's typical to have several stages of an API deployed to different API Management instances or in a shared API Management instance. The Git repository, which is the single source of truth, shows which versions of applications are currently deployed to a cluster.
When someone makes a PR in the Git repository, the API operator knows they have new code to review. For example, when a developer takes the OpenAPI Specification and builds the API implementation, they add this new code to the repository. The operators can review the PR and make sure that the API that's been submitted for review meets best practices and standards.
Performance Efficiency
Performance Efficiency refers to your workload's ability to scale to meet user demands efficiently. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Performance Efficiency.
APIOps has many benefits, but as API Management landscapes grow, so does the complexity of managing them. This solution helps meet challenges like:
Keeping an overview of all environments and API Management instances.
Tracking critical changes to APIs and policies.
Creating an audit trail for all deployed changes.
Deploy this scenario
Deploying this solution involves these steps:
Develop the API in the portal or make changes to the OpenAPI Specification by using a tool of your choice.If you make changes in the portal, you can run the extractor to automatically extract all the APIs and other relevant policies, operations, and configurations from API Management. You can synchronize this information to the Git repository.Optionally, use the Azure DevOps CLI tocreate a new pull request.
Develop the API in the portal or make changes to the OpenAPI Specification by using a tool of your choice.
If you make changes in the portal, you can run the extractor to automatically extract all the APIs and other relevant policies, operations, and configurations from API Management. You can synchronize this information to the Git repository.
If you make changes in the portal, you can run the extractor to automatically extract all the APIs and other relevant policies, operations, and configurations from API Management. You can synchronize this information to the Git repository.
Optionally, use the Azure DevOps CLI tocreate a new pull request.
Optionally, use the Azure DevOps CLI tocreate a new pull request.
The extractor workflow includes the following steps that you take:Run a pipeline that downloads changes in the portal to the API Management instance.Enter the names of the branch, your APIM artifacts repository, the API Management instance, and the resource group.
The extractor workflow includes the following steps that you take:
Run a pipeline that downloads changes in the portal to the API Management instance.
Run a pipeline that downloads changes in the portal to the API Management instance.
Enter the names of the branch, your APIM artifacts repository, the API Management instance, and the resource group.
Enter the names of the branch, your APIM artifacts repository, the API Management instance, and the resource group.

In our scenario, the pipeline that downloads changes in the portal to the API Management instance has the following stages:Build extractor,Create artifacts from portal, andCreate template branch.Build extractorThis stage builds the extractor code.Create artifacts from portalThis stage runs the extractor and creates artifacts that resemble a Git repository structure like that shown in the following screenshot:Create template branchAfter generating the artifact, this stage creates a PR with the changes extracted for the platform team to review.The first time you run the extractor, it pulls everything from the Git repository. The PR that's created will have all the APIs, policies, artifacts, and so on.Later extractions have only changes made before the extraction in the PR. Sometimes changes might be only to the specification of an API, which is the case in the following example of a PR.
In our scenario, the pipeline that downloads changes in the portal to the API Management instance has the following stages:Build extractor,Create artifacts from portal, andCreate template branch.
Build extractorThis stage builds the extractor code.
Build extractor
This stage builds the extractor code.
Create artifacts from portalThis stage runs the extractor and creates artifacts that resemble a Git repository structure like that shown in the following screenshot:Create template branchAfter generating the artifact, this stage creates a PR with the changes extracted for the platform team to review.The first time you run the extractor, it pulls everything from the Git repository. The PR that's created will have all the APIs, policies, artifacts, and so on.Later extractions have only changes made before the extraction in the PR. Sometimes changes might be only to the specification of an API, which is the case in the following example of a PR.
Create artifacts from portal
This stage runs the extractor and creates artifacts that resemble a Git repository structure like that shown in the following screenshot:

Create template branchAfter generating the artifact, this stage creates a PR with the changes extracted for the platform team to review.The first time you run the extractor, it pulls everything from the Git repository. The PR that's created will have all the APIs, policies, artifacts, and so on.Later extractions have only changes made before the extraction in the PR. Sometimes changes might be only to the specification of an API, which is the case in the following example of a PR.
Create template branch
After generating the artifact, this stage creates a PR with the changes extracted for the platform team to review.
The first time you run the extractor, it pulls everything from the Git repository. The PR that's created will have all the APIs, policies, artifacts, and so on.
Later extractions have only changes made before the extraction in the PR. Sometimes changes might be only to the specification of an API, which is the case in the following example of a PR.

A reviewer goes toPull Requeststo view the updated pull requests. You can also configure automatic approvals to automate this step.
A reviewer goes toPull Requeststo view the updated pull requests. You can also configure automatic approvals to automate this step.

After approving the PR, it triggers another pipeline that publishes from API Management to the portal. In our example,it has the following stages:build creator,build terminator, andpublish APIM instances.Thebuild creatorstage handles creation of new APIs.Thebuild terminatorstage handles any deletions.Thepublish APIM instancesstage publishes changes to the API Management instance.After this pipeline runs successfully, it publishes the changes in the API Management instance.
After approving the PR, it triggers another pipeline that publishes from API Management to the portal. In our example,it has the following stages:build creator,build terminator, andpublish APIM instances.

Thebuild creatorstage handles creation of new APIs.
Thebuild terminatorstage handles any deletions.
Thepublish APIM instancesstage publishes changes to the API Management instance.

After this pipeline runs successfully, it publishes the changes in the API Management instance.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Rishabh Saha| Principal Solution Architect
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
Azure Pipelines
APIOps for Azure API Management
CI/CD for API Management using Azure Resource Manager templates
GitOps Overview
Weave GitOps
Tutorial: Deploy configurations using GitOps on an Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster
Related resources
GitOps for Azure Kubernetes Service
Migrate a web app using Azure API Management
Protect APIs with Application Gateway and API Management