Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Manage protocols and ciphers in Azure API Management
Article
2025-03-13
6 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: All API Management tiers
Azure API Management supports multiple versions of Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol to secure API traffic for:
Client side
Backend side
API Management also supports multiple cipher suites used by the API gateway.
By default, API Management enables TLS 1.2 for client and backend connectivity and several supported cipher suites. This guide shows you how to manage protocols and ciphers configuration for an Azure API Management instance.

Note
If you're using the self-hosted gateway, seeself-hosted gateway securityto manage TLS protocols and cipher suites.
The following tiers don't support changes to the default cipher configuration:Consumption,Basic v2,Standard v2,Premium v2.
Inworkspaces, the managed gateway doesn't support changes to the default protocol and cipher configuration.
Prerequisites
An API Management instance.Create one if you haven't already.
Go to your API Management instance
In the Azureportal, search for and selectAPI Management services:
In the Azureportal, search for and selectAPI Management services:

On theAPI Management servicespage, select your API Management instance:
On theAPI Management servicespage, select your API Management instance:

How to manage TLS protocols cipher suites
In the left navigation of your API Management instance, underSecurity, selectProtocols + ciphers.
Enable or disable desired protocols or ciphers.
SelectSave.
Changes can take 1 hour or longer to apply. An instance in the Developer service tier has downtime during the process. Instances in the Basic and higher tiers don't have downtime during the process.
Note
Some protocols or cipher suites (such as backend-side TLS 1.2) can't be enabled or disabled from the Azure portal. Instead, you'll need to apply the REST API call. Use theproperties.customPropertiesstructure in theCreate/Update API Management ServiceREST API.
properties.customProperties
Related content
For recommendations on securing your API Management instance, seeAzure security baseline for API Management.
Learn about security considerations in the API Managementlanding zone accelerator.
Learn more aboutTLS.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources