Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Best practices for data collection rule creation and management in Azure Monitor
Article
2025-04-17
2 contributors
In this article
Data Collection Rules (DCRs)determine how to collect and process telemetry sent to Azure. Some data collection rules are created and managed by Azure Monitor, while you may create others to customize data collection for your particular requirements. This article discusses some best practices that should be applied when creating your own DCRs.
When you create a DCR, there are some aspects that need to be considered such as:
The type of data that is collected, also known as data source type (performance, events)
The target Virtual Machines to which the DCR is associated with
The destination of collected data
Considering all these factors is critical for a good DCR organization. All the above points impact on DCR management effort as well on resource consumption for configuration transfer and processing.
Given the native granularity, which allows a given DCR to be associated with more than one target virtual machine and vice versa, it's important to keep the DCRs as simple as possible using fewer data sources each. It's also important to keep the list of collected items in each data source lean and oriented to the observability scope.

To clarify what anobservability scopecould be, think about it as your preferred logical boundary for collecting data. For instance, a possible scope could be a set of virtual machines running software (for example,SQL Servers) needed for a specific application, or basic operating system counters or events set used by your IT Admins. It's also possible to create similar scopes dedicated to different environments (Development,Test,Production) to specialize even more.
In fact, it's not ideal and even not recommended to create a single DCR containing all the data sources, collection items, and destinations to implement the observability. In the following table, there are several recommendations that could help in better planning DCR creation and maintenance:
The previously mentioned principles provide a foundation for creating your own DCR management approach that balances maintainability, ease of reuse, granularity, and service limits. DCRs also need shared governance, to minimize both the creation of silos and unnecessary duplication of work.
Next steps
Read more about data collection rules and options for creating them.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources