Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Power Automate migration to Azure Logic Apps (Standard)
Article
2025-02-05
1 contributor
In this article
Applies to:Azure Logic Apps (Standard)
Many development teams increasingly need to build scalable, secure, and efficient automation solutions. Perhaps your team also faces the strategic choice whether to migrate your flows in Microsoft Power Automate to Standard workflows in Azure Logic Apps. Both Power Automate and Azure Logic Apps provide powerful automation platforms and tools. However, for enterprises that run complex, high-volume, and security-sensitive workloads, Azure Logic Apps (Standard) offers many key advantages.
This guide outlines the advantages gained from transitioning to Azure Logic Apps (Standard).
Migration benefits
Azure Logic Apps (Standard) provides the following benefits by providing capabilities that support enterprise-level scenarios and needs. The following table lists some high-level examples:
For more detailed capability information and comparisons, seeCompare capability details.

Azure Logic Apps excels at helping you integrate your workflows with an expansive range of services, systems, apps, and data and by supporting tools that help speed your development process.
Development tools and reusabilityVisually build workflows using a browser-based designer that includes an expression editor, or use the JSON code editor in the Azure portal.Build modular, reusable components with logic app projects in Visual Studio Code when you use the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) extension. These components help you reduce development time and make sure that you have consistency across projects.Locally create, debug, run, and manage workflows managed by your logic app project in Visual Studio Code when you use the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) extension.
Development tools and reusability
Visually build workflows using a browser-based designer that includes an expression editor, or use the JSON code editor in the Azure portal.
Visually build workflows using a browser-based designer that includes an expression editor, or use the JSON code editor in the Azure portal.

Build modular, reusable components with logic app projects in Visual Studio Code when you use the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) extension. These components help you reduce development time and make sure that you have consistency across projects.
Build modular, reusable components with logic app projects in Visual Studio Code when you use the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) extension. These components help you reduce development time and make sure that you have consistency across projects.

Locally create, debug, run, and manage workflows managed by your logic app project in Visual Studio Code when you use the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) extension.
Locally create, debug, run, and manage workflows managed by your logic app project in Visual Studio Code when you use the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) extension.
Extensive connector libraryChoose from over 1,400 Azure-hosted connectors to access cloud services, on-premises systems, apps, and other data sources. Connect even more securely to key services such as SQL Server and Azure Key Vault and in more scalable ways by using built-in operations powered by the Azure Logic Apps runtime.For more information, see the following documentation:Azure-hosted and managed connectorsRuntime-powered, built-in operations
Extensive connector library
Choose from over 1,400 Azure-hosted connectors to access cloud services, on-premises systems, apps, and other data sources. Connect even more securely to key services such as SQL Server and Azure Key Vault and in more scalable ways by using built-in operations powered by the Azure Logic Apps runtime.
For more information, see the following documentation:
Azure-hosted and managed connectors
Runtime-powered, built-in operations
Workflow templates galleryCreate workflows even faster by starting with prebuilt templates for commonly used workload patterns, including ones that support AI data processing and chat completion scenarios.
Workflow templates gallery
Create workflows even faster by starting with prebuilt templates for commonly used workload patterns, including ones that support AI data processing and chat completion scenarios.
Add and run your own code snippetsWrite and run .NET code, C# scripts, or PowerShell scripts from Standard workflows. For more information, see the following resources:Create and run .NET code from Standard workflowsAdd and run C# scripts inline with Standard workflowsAdd and run PowerShell scripts in Standard workflows
Add and run your own code snippets
Write and run .NET code, C# scripts, or PowerShell scripts from Standard workflows. For more information, see the following resources:
Create and run .NET code from Standard workflows
Add and run C# scripts inline with Standard workflows
Add and run PowerShell scripts in Standard workflows

Enterprises consider security a top priority, so Azure Logic Apps (Standard) provides security features that differ from the capabilities in Power Automate, for example:
Virtual network integration and private endpointsRun Standard workflows inside secure Azure virtual networks, which reduce exposure to the public internet through private endpoints and enhance data security.
Virtual network integration and private endpoints
Run Standard workflows inside secure Azure virtual networks, which reduce exposure to the public internet through private endpoints and enhance data security.
Managed identity authenticationEliminate the need to manually manage user credentials, while allowing your workflows to securely access and interact with other Azure services or resources.
Managed identity authentication
Eliminate the need to manually manage user credentials, while allowing your workflows to securely access and interact with other Azure services or resources.
Role-based access control (RBAC)Minimize the risks from unauthorized access or changes by assigning granular permissions to your logic app workflows with precisely defined role-based access controls. In Azure Logic Apps, RBAC works at the resource level where you assign role-based access to a specific resource. So, if the workflow creator leaves, you don't lose access to their workflows. For more information, seeSecure access and data for workflowsandWhat is Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)?.In Power Automate, RBAC works at the user level. For more information, seeManage security for Power Automate.
Role-based access control (RBAC)
Minimize the risks from unauthorized access or changes by assigning granular permissions to your logic app workflows with precisely defined role-based access controls. In Azure Logic Apps, RBAC works at the resource level where you assign role-based access to a specific resource. So, if the workflow creator leaves, you don't lose access to their workflows. For more information, seeSecure access and data for workflowsandWhat is Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)?.
In Power Automate, RBAC works at the user level. For more information, seeManage security for Power Automate.
Logging and auditing capabilitiesIn Azure Logic Apps, you can use audit trails to track changes and ensure compliance with security standards.
Logging and auditing capabilities
In Azure Logic Apps, you can use audit trails to track changes and ensure compliance with security standards.

Azure Logic Apps (Standard) is designed and built for high performance and scalable automation, which makes the platform ideal for large-scale workflows with following capabilities:
Dedicated compute resourcesA Standard logic app resource can use one of the following hosting options:Single-tenant Azure Logic AppsApp Service Environment (ASE) v3Your own infrastructure (hybrid deployment)These dedicated compute resources make sure that your workflows experience stable and consistent performance.Elastic scaling makes on-demand automatic scaling possible for logic app workflow-related resources and capacity. This scaling optimizes costs and maintains performance even during peak loads.
Dedicated compute resources
A Standard logic app resource can use one of the following hosting options:
Single-tenant Azure Logic Apps
App Service Environment (ASE) v3
Your own infrastructure (hybrid deployment)
These dedicated compute resources make sure that your workflows experience stable and consistent performance.
Elastic scaling makes on-demand automatic scaling possible for logic app workflow-related resources and capacity. This scaling optimizes costs and maintains performance even during peak loads.
Optimized workflow executionBy default, workflow instances run in parallel or concurrently, which reduces processing time for complex tasks. Performance optimizations for the Azure Logic Apps platform provide lower latency and faster response times.
Optimized workflow execution
By default, workflow instances run in parallel or concurrently, which reduces processing time for complex tasks. Performance optimizations for the Azure Logic Apps platform provide lower latency and faster response times.
High throughputAzure Logic Apps efficiently handles high transaction volume without degrading performance as a result from having access to Azure's infrastructure.
High throughput
Azure Logic Apps efficiently handles high transaction volume without degrading performance as a result from having access to Azure's infrastructure.

To make sure that workflow operations run without interruption, Azure Logic Apps provides the following comprehensive BCDR capabilities:
Geo-redundancyMulti-region deployment: You can distribute logic app instances across multiple regions to ensure availability even during regional outages, which minimize downtime.
Geo-redundancy
Multi-region deployment: You can distribute logic app instances across multiple regions to ensure availability even during regional outages, which minimize downtime.
Automated backups and restoreAutomated regular backup processes make sure that you can quickly restore workflows if failures or accident deletions happen.
Automated backups and restore
Automated regular backup processes make sure that you can quickly restore workflows if failures or accident deletions happen.
High availabilityAzure Logic Apps (Standard) includes built-in redundancy, which provides high availability to keep your workflows operational even during infrastructure failures.
High availability
Azure Logic Apps (Standard) includes built-in redundancy, which provides high availability to keep your workflows operational even during infrastructure failures.

Azure Logic Apps supports robust version control and automated deployment processes through CI/CD pipelines.
Version control integrationFull Git integration for Visual Studio Code projects helps your team work seamlessly with Git repositories, collaborate more easily, and track changes to workflows, manage branches, and so on. Change tracking includes full version history so you can revert to previous workflow versions if necessary.
Version control integration
Full Git integration for Visual Studio Code projects helps your team work seamlessly with Git repositories, collaborate more easily, and track changes to workflows, manage branches, and so on. Change tracking includes full version history so you can revert to previous workflow versions if necessary.
CI/CD pipelines for safe deployment practicesAzure Logic Apps supports automated deployments and integrates with CI/CD tools such as Azure DevOps, which facilitate consistent and less error-prone deployments across environments.Define and deploy your logic app workflows with Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates or Bicep templates (infrastructure as code) by using Azure DevOps, which provides scalable, repeatable deployments that align with DevOps practices.
CI/CD pipelines for safe deployment practices
Azure Logic Apps supports automated deployments and integrates with CI/CD tools such as Azure DevOps, which facilitate consistent and less error-prone deployments across environments.
Define and deploy your logic app workflows with Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates or Bicep templates (infrastructure as code) by using Azure DevOps, which provides scalable, repeatable deployments that align with DevOps practices.

For mission-critical logic apps that require continues availability and responsiveness, Azure Logic Apps supports zero downtime deployment when youset up deployment slots.
Migration testing and validation
To make sure that your converted flow works with the expected continuity and performance, your migration process requires thorough testing and validation:

Compare capability details
The following table provides an in-depth comparison between Azure Logic Apps (Standard), Azure Logic Apps (Consumption), and Power Automate:
Note
This information is only a guide and doesn't include pricing information.
Make sure that you review the pricing or license plan information for each service.
Related content
Microsoft Power Automate documentation
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources