Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Choose an Azure service for vector search
Article
2025-01-10
13 contributors
In this article
Vector search is a method of finding information stored in a database in the shape of vectors. Vectors are groups of numbers that represent features or characteristics of media, such as text or images. Vectors are a significant advancement over traditional keyword-based search methods. They offer faster, more accurate results by understanding the semantic relationships within the information.
Azure offers multiple ways to store and search vectorized data. This article helps architects and developers who need to understand and choose the right Azure service for vector search for their application.
This article compares the following services based on their vector search capabilities:
Azure AI Search
Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL
Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB (vCore)
Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL
Azure Database for PostgreSQL
Azure SQL Database
Architects and developers should compare the available services from the perspective of system requirements inChoose a candidate serviceand inCapability matrix.
Choose a candidate service
This section helps you select the most likely services for your needs. To narrow the choices, start by considering the system requirements.
Key requirements

When deciding whether to use a traditional database solution or Azure AI Search service, consider your requirements and whether you can perform live or real-time vector searching on your data. A traditional relational or NoSQL database is the best fit for your scenario if you change values in vectorized fields frequently and the changes need to be searchable in real time or near real time. Likewise, using your existing database might be the best solution for you to meet your performance targets. On the other hand, if your workload doesn't require real-time or near real-time vector searchability, and you accept managing an index of vectors, AI Search can be a compelling choice.
If you choose a traditional database solution, the specific type of database service you decide to use mostly depends on your team's skill set and the databases that you currently operate. If you already use a specific type of database, like MongoDB for example, then using that same type of database might be the easiest solution for your scenario. As shown in theCapability matrixsection, each database service has some unique capabilities and limitations for vector search. Review that information to ensure that your preferred database type supports the functionality you require.
If cost concerns are a driving factor, maintaining your existing design is likely the best fit for your scenario because introducing new services or other instances of a database service can add new net costs and complexity. Using your current databases for vector search likely affects your costs less than using a dedicated service.
If you choose to use a traditional database instead of AI Search, some advanced search features aren't available by default. For example, if you want to do reranking or hybrid search, enable that functionality through Transact-SQL (T-SQL) or other coding.
Capability matrix
The tables in this section summarize the key differences in capabilities.
Basic features
Native support for vector data types, approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) vector indexes, vector dimension limits, multiple vector fields, and multiple vector indexes are sometimes different between the services. Your workload requirements might require some of these specific features. Understand the basic vector features of each Azure service, as shown in the following table.
"pgvector" supports vector search, which is theextension of PostgreSQL.
Use vector search on embeddingsin Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB vCore
Vectors in Azure AI Search
Native vector search is available with Azure SQL DatabaseEarly adopter preview
Vectors can be stored in aVARBINARY(8000) column or variable.
Embedding models from OpenAI, 1536 for both text-embedding-ada-002 and text-embedding-3-small, and 3072 for text-embedding-3-large. ForAzure AI Vision multimodal embedding models, 1024 for both image and text.
Vectors can have up to16,000 dimensions. But index using "IVFFlat" and "HNSW" supports vectors with up to 2,000 dimensions.
Vectors indexed with the flat index type can be at most 505 dimensions. Vectors indexed with the quantizedFlat or DiskANN index type can be at most 4,096 dimensions.
SQL DatabaseVector Data Type
Search methods
Workloads often need to combine vector search with full text search or even a hybrid search (full text search or semantic search plus vector search). The combination of hybrid search and reranking achieves high accuracy for workloads. You can manually implement hybrid search and reranking with your own code, or you can consider how your vector store supports this workload requirement.
PostgreSQLFull Text Search
Search and query with text indexesin Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB vCore
Get started withFull-Text Search
Vector dataon SQL Server
Not provided as a first-class feature butsample codesare provided.
Hybrid search (combination of full text search, vector search, and semantic ranking)is provided as a first-class feature.
Hybrid searchexamplefor Azure SQL database and SQL Server.
Reranking calledSemantic Rankingis a first-class feature for reranking the result of full text search and/or vector search.
Cosmos DB NoSQLFull Text Search with full text scoring
Cosmos DB NoSQLHybrid Search
Vector data indexing algorithms
Vector data indexing is the ability to efficiently store and retrieve vectors. This capability is important because indexing influences speed and accuracy of similarity searches and nearest neighbor queries on data sources.
Indexes are typically based on an exhaustive k-nearest neighbor (Ek-NN) or an ANN algorithm. Ek-NN does an exhaustive search on all data points one by one and returns the accurateKnearest neighbors. Ek-NN works in milliseconds with a small amount of data but can cause latency for large amounts of data.
DiskANN,HNSWandIVFFlatare ANN algorithm indexes. Selecting the appropriate indexing strategy involves a careful consideration of various factors such as the nature of the dataset, the specific requirements of the queries, and the available resources. DiskANN can adapt to change in the dataset and save computational resources. HNSW excels in systems that require fast query responses and can adapt to changes in the dataset. IVFFlat is effective in environments where hardware resources are limited, or query volumes aren't high.
Understand what kinds of vector data indexing are provided from the following table.
DiskANN for Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server
Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB - Vector search overview
Vector indexing policies
Only one vector field is available per container.
Only one vector index is available per container.
Index can be created with the aid of external libraries likeScikit LearnorFAISS
Similarity and distance calculation capabilities
There areCosine similarity,Dot product, andEuclidean distancecalculation methods for vector search. These methods are used to calculate the similarity between two vectors or the distance between two vectors.
Preliminary data analysis benefits from both metrics and Euclidean distances, which allow for the extraction of different insights on data structure, whereas text classification generally performs better under Euclidean distances. Retrieval of the most similar texts to a given text typically functions better with cosine similarity.
Azure OpenAI Service embeddings rely on cosine similarity to compute similarity between documents and a query.
Vector Distance Calculationfor Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL.
Distance calculationexamplesfor Azure SQL database and SQL Server.
Integration with Azure OpenAI and other components
When implementing vector search, you can also consider linking with other Microsoft components. For example, Azure OpenAI Service helps you create vectors for your data and input queries for vector similarity search.
Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB (vCore) issupported as a data sourcefor Azure OpenAI on Your Data.
Azure AI Search issupported as a data sourcefor Azure OpenAI on Your Data.
Azure AI Extension (preview)is available.
Azure AI Search provides a skill to vectorize the chunked text.
You can create astored procedure for your embedding model deployment.
Supported as a vector database inVector DB Lookuptool.
Supported as a memory connector, and a vector database connector (C#).
Supported as a memory connector, and a vector database connector (C#,Python).
Supported as a vector database connector (C#,Python).
Supported as a memory connector, and a vector database connector (C#,Python).
Supported as amemory connector.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal authors:
Keita Onabuta| Senior Customer Engineer
Gary Lee| Senior Customer Engineer
Other contributors:
Kruti Mehta| Customer Engineer
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next step
Implement knowledge mining with Azure AI Search. This learning path explores how to use Azure AI Search.
Related resources
Understand data store models
Technology choices for Azure solutions
Intelligent Application and AI
Vector similarity search with Azure SQL & Azure OpenAI
Native Vector Support in Azure SQL and SQL Server
Vector database in Azure Cosmos DB
Vector Search in Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL
Azure Vector Database Samples
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources