Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Application platform considerations for mission-critical workloads
Article
2024-09-24
9 contributors
In this article
A key design area of any mission critical architecture is the application platform. Platform refers to the infrastructure components and Azure services that must be provisioned to support the application. Here are some overarching recommendations.
Design in layers. Choose the right set of services, their configuration, and the application-specific dependencies. This layered approach helps in creatinglogical and physical segmentation. It's useful in defining roles and functions, and assigning appropriate privileges, and deployment strategies. This approach ultimately increases the reliability of the system.
Design in layers. Choose the right set of services, their configuration, and the application-specific dependencies. This layered approach helps in creatinglogical and physical segmentation. It's useful in defining roles and functions, and assigning appropriate privileges, and deployment strategies. This approach ultimately increases the reliability of the system.
A mission-critical application must be highly reliable and resistant to datacenter and regional failures. Buildingzonal and regional redundancyin an active-active configuration is the main strategy. As you choose Azure services for your application's platform, consider their Availability Zones support and deployment and operational patterns to use multiple Azure regions.
A mission-critical application must be highly reliable and resistant to datacenter and regional failures. Buildingzonal and regional redundancyin an active-active configuration is the main strategy. As you choose Azure services for your application's platform, consider their Availability Zones support and deployment and operational patterns to use multiple Azure regions.
Use ascale units-based architecture to handle increased load. Scale units allow you to logically group resources and a unit can bescaled independent of other unitsor services in the architecture. Use your capacity model and expected performance to define the boundaries of, number of, and the baseline scale of each unit.
Use ascale units-based architecture to handle increased load. Scale units allow you to logically group resources and a unit can bescaled independent of other unitsor services in the architecture. Use your capacity model and expected performance to define the boundaries of, number of, and the baseline scale of each unit.
In this architecture, the application platform consists of global, deployment stamp, and regional resources. The regional resources are provisioned as part of a deployment stamp. Each stamp equates to a scale unit and, in case it becomes unhealthy, can be entirely replaced.
The resources in each layer have distinct characteristics. For more information, seeArchitecture pattern of a typical mission-critical workload.
Global resources
Certain resources in this architecture are shared by resources deployed in regions. In this architecture, they are used to distribute traffic across multiple regions, store permanent state for the whole application, and cache global static data.
In this architecture, global layer resources areAzure Front Door,Azure Cosmos DB,Azure Container Registry, andAzure Log Analyticsfor storing logs and metrics from other global layer resources.
There are other foundational resources in this design, such as Microsoft Entra ID and Azure DNS. They have been omitted in this image for brevity.

Global load balancer
Azure Front Door is used as theonly entry pointfor user traffic. Azure guarantees that Azure Front Door will deliver the requested content without error 99.99% of the time. For more details, seeFront Door service limits. If Front Door becomes unavailable, the end user will see the system as being down.
The Front Door instance sends traffic to the configured backend services, such as the compute cluster that hosts the API and the frontend SPA.Backend misconfigurations in Front Door can lead to outages. To avoid outages due to misconfigurations, you should extensively test your Front Door settings.
Another common error can come frommisconfigured or missing TLS certificates, which can prevent users from using the front end or Front Door communicating to the backend. Mitigation might require manual intervention. For example, you might choose to roll back to the previous configuration and re-issue the certificate, if possible. Regardless, expect unavailability while changes take effect. Using managed certificates offered by Front door is recommended to reduce the operational overhead, such as handling expiration.
Front Door offers many additional capabilities besides global traffic routing. An important capability is the Web Application Firewall (WAF), because Front Door is able to inspect traffic which is passing through. When configured in thePreventionmode, it will block suspicious traffic before even reaching any of the backends.
For information about Front Door capabilities, seeFrequently asked questions for Azure Front Door.
For other considerations about global distribution of traffic, seeMission-critical guidance in Well-architected Framework: Global routing.
Container Registry
Azure Container Registry is used to store Open Container Initiative (OCI) artifacts, specifically helm charts and container images. It doesn't participate in the request flow and is only accessed periodically. Container registry is required to exist before stamp resources are deployed and shouldn't have dependency on regional layer resources.
Enable zone redundancy and geo-replication of registries so that runtime access to images is fast and resilient to failures. In case of unavailability, the instance can then fail over to replica regions and requests are automatically re-routed to another region. Expect transient errors in pulling images until failover is complete.
Failures can also occur if images are deleted inadvertently, new compute nodes won't be able to pull images, but existing nodes can still use cached images. The primarystrategy for disaster recovery is redeployment. The artifacts in a container registry can be regenerated from pipelines. Container registry must be able to withstand many concurrent connections to support all of your deployments.
It’s recommended that you use the Premium SKU to enable geo replication. The zone redundancy feature ensures resiliency and high availability within a specific region. In case of a regional outage, replicas in other regions are still available for data plane operations. With this SKU you can restrict access to images through private endpoints.
For more details, seeBest practices for Azure Container Registry.
Database
It's recommended that all state is stored globally in a database separated from regional stamps. Build redundancy by deploying the database across regions. For mission-critical workloads,synchronizing data across regions should be the primary concern. Also, in case of a failure, write requests to the database should still be functional.
Data replication in an active-active configuration is strongly recommended. The application should be able to instantly connect with another region. All instances should be able to handle readandwrite requests.
For more information, seeData platform for mission-critical workloads.
Global monitoring
Azure Log Analytics is used to store diagnostic logs from all global resources. It's recommended that you restrict daily quota on storage especially on environments that are used for load testing. Also, set retention policy. These restrictions will prevent any overspend that is incurred by storing data that isn't needed beyond a limit.
Considerations for foundational services
The system is likely to use other critical platform services that can cause the entire system to be at risk, such as Azure DNS and Microsoft Entra ID. Azure DNS guarantees 100% availability SLA for valid DNS requests. Microsoft Entra guarantees at least 99.99% uptime. Still, you should be aware of the impact in the event of a failure.
Taking hard dependency on foundational services is inevitable because many Azure services depend on them. Expect disruption in the system if they are unavailable. For instance:
Azure Front Door uses Azure DNS to reach the backend and other global services.
Azure Container Registry uses Azure DNS to fail over requests to another region.
In both cases, both Azure services will be impacted if Azure DNS is unavailable. Name resolution for user requests from Front Door will fail; Docker images won't be pulled from the registry. Using an external DNS service as backup won't mitigate the risk because many Azure services don't allow such configuration and rely on internal DNS. Expect full outage.
Similarly, Microsoft Entra ID is used for control plane operations such as creating new AKS nodes, pulling images from Container Registry, or accessing Key Vault on pod startup. If Microsoft Entra ID is unavailable, existing components shouldn't be affected, but overall performance may be degraded. New pods or AKS nodes won't be functional. So, in case scale out operations are required during this time, expect decreased user experience.
Regional deployment stamp resources
In this architecture, the deployment stamp deploys the workload and provisions resources that participate in completing business transactions. A stamp typically corresponds to a deployment to an Azure region. Although a region can have more than one stamp.
In this architecture, stamp resources areAzure Kubernetes Service,Azure Event Hubs,Azure Key Vault, andAzure Blob Storage.

Scale unit
A stamp can also be considered as a scale unit (SU). All components and services within a given stamp are configured and tested to serve requests in a given range. Here's an example of a scale unit used in the implementation.

Each scale unit is deployed into an Azure region and is therefore primarily handling traffic from that given area (although it can take over traffic from other regions when needed). This geographic spread will likely result in load patterns and business hours that might vary from region to region and as such, every SU is designed to scale-in/-down when idle.
You can deploy a new stamp to scale. Inside a stamp, individual resources can also beunits of scale.
Here are some scaling and availability considerations when choosing Azure services in a unit:
Evaluate capacity relationsbetween all resources in a scale unit. For example, to handle 100 incoming requests, 5 ingress controller pods and 3 catalog service pods and 1000 RUs in Azure Cosmos DB would be needed. So, when autoscaling the ingress pods, expect scaling of the catalog service and Azure Cosmos DB RUs given those ranges.
Evaluate capacity relationsbetween all resources in a scale unit. For example, to handle 100 incoming requests, 5 ingress controller pods and 3 catalog service pods and 1000 RUs in Azure Cosmos DB would be needed. So, when autoscaling the ingress pods, expect scaling of the catalog service and Azure Cosmos DB RUs given those ranges.
Load test the servicesto determine a range within which requests will be served. Based on the results configure minimum and maximum instances and target metrics. When the target is reached, you can choose to automate scaling of the entire unit.
Load test the servicesto determine a range within which requests will be served. Based on the results configure minimum and maximum instances and target metrics. When the target is reached, you can choose to automate scaling of the entire unit.
Review the Azure subscription scale limits and quotasto support the capacity and cost model set by the business requirements. Also check the limits of individual services in consideration. Because units are typically deployed together, factor in the subscription resource limits that are required for canary deployments. For more information, seeAzure service limits.
Review the Azure subscription scale limits and quotasto support the capacity and cost model set by the business requirements. Also check the limits of individual services in consideration. Because units are typically deployed together, factor in the subscription resource limits that are required for canary deployments. For more information, seeAzure service limits.
Choose services that support availability zonesto build redundancy. This might limit your technology choices. SeeAvailability Zonesfor details.
Choose services that support availability zonesto build redundancy. This might limit your technology choices. SeeAvailability Zonesfor details.
For other considerations about the size of a unit, and combination of resources, seeMission-critical guidance in Well-architected Framework: Scale-unit architecture.
Compute cluster
To containerize the workload, each stamp needs to run a compute cluster. In this architecture, Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is chosen because Kubernetes is the most popular compute platform for modern, containerized applications.
The lifetime of the AKS cluster is bound to the ephemeral nature of the stamp.The cluster is statelessand doesn't have persistent volumes. It uses ephemeral OS disks instead of managed disks because they aren't expected to receive application or system-level maintenance.
To increase reliability, the cluster is configured touse all three availability zonesin a given region. Additionally, to enable AKS Uptime SLA with guaranteed 99.95% SLA availability of the AKS control plane, the cluster should use eitherStandard, orPremiumtier. SeeAKS pricing tiersto learn more.
Other factors such as scale limits, compute capacity, subscription quota can also impact reliability. If there isn't enough capacity or limits are reached, scale out and scale up operations will fail but existing compute is expected to function.
The cluster has autoscaling enabled to let node poolsautomatically scale out if needed, which improves reliability. When using multiple node pools, all node pools should be autoscaled.
At the pod level, the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) scales pods based on configured CPU, memory, or custom metrics. Load test the components of the workload to establish a baseline for the autoscaler and HPA values.
The cluster is also configured forautomatic node image upgradesand to scale appropriately during those upgrades. This scaling allows for zero downtime while upgrades are being performed. If the cluster in one stamp fails during an upgrade, other clusters in other stamps shouldn't be affected, but upgrades across stamps should occur at different times to maintain availability. Also, cluster upgrades are automatically rolled across the nodes so that they aren't unavailable at the same time.
Some components such as cert-manager and ingress-nginx require container images from external container registries. If those repositories or images are unavailable, new instances on new nodes (where the image isn't cached) might not be able to start. This risk could be mitigated by importing these images to the environment's Azure Container Registry.
Observability is criticalin this architecture because stamps are ephemeral. Diagnostic settings are configured to store all log and metric data in a regional Log Analytics workspace. Also, AKS Container Insights is enabled through an in-cluster OMS Agent. This agent allows the cluster to send monitoring data to the Log Analytics workspace.
For other considerations about the compute cluster, seeMission-critical guidance in Well-architected Framework: Container Orchestration and Kubernetes.
Key Vault
Azure Key Vault is used to store global secrets such as connection strings to the database and stamp secrets such as the Event Hubs connection string.
This architecture uses aSecrets Store CSI driverin the compute cluster to get secrets from Key Vault. Secrets are needed when new pods are spawned. If Key Vault is unavailable, new pods might not get started. As a result, there might be disruption; scale out operations can be impacted, updates can fail, new deployments can't be executed.
Key Vault has a limit on the number of operations. Due to the automatic update of secrets, the limit can be reached if there are many pods. You canchoose to decrease the frequency of updatesto avoid this situation.
For other considerations on secret management, seeMission-critical guidance in Well-architected Framework: Data integrity protection.
Event Hubs
The only stateful service in the stamp is the message broker, Azure Event Hubs, which stores requests for a short period. The broker serves theneed for buffering and reliable messaging. The processed requests are persisted in the global database.
In this architecture, Standard SKU is used and zone redundancy is enabled for high availability.
Event Hubs health is verified by the HealthService component running on the compute cluster. It performs periodic checks against various resources. This is useful in detecting unhealthy conditions. For example, if messages can't be sent to the event hub, the stamp  would be unusable for any write operations. HealthService should automatically detect this condition and report unhealthy state to Front Door, which will take the stamp out of rotation.
For scalability, enabling auto-inflate is recommended.
For more information, seeMessaging services for mission-critical workloads.
For other considerations about messaging, seeMission-critical guidance in Well-architected Framework: Asynchronous messaging.
Storage accounts
In this architecture two storage accounts are provisioned. Both accounts are deployed in zone-redundant mode (ZRS).
One account is used for Event Hubs checkpointing. If this account isn't responsive, the stamp won't be able to process messages from Event Hubs and might even impact other services in the stamp. This condition is periodically checked by the HealthService, which is one of the application components running in the compute cluster.
The other is used to host the UI single-page application. If serving of the static web site has any issues, Front Door will detect the issue and won't send traffic to this storage account. During this time, Front Door can use cached content.
For more information about recovery, seeDisaster recovery and storage account failover.
Regional resources
A system can have resources that are deployed in region but outlive the stamp resources. In this architecture, observability data for stamp resources are stored in regional data stores.
Monitoring data for stamp resources
Deploying monitoring resources is a typical example for regional resources. In this architecture, each region has an individual Log Analytics workspace configured to store all log and metric data emitted from stamp resources. Because regional resources outlive stamp resources,data is available even when the stamp is deleted.
Azure Log AnalyticsandAzure Application Insightsare used to store logs and metrics from the platform. It's recommended that you restrict daily quota on storage especially on environments that are used for load testing. Also, set retention policy to store all data. These restrictions will prevent any overspend that is incurred by storing data that isn't needed beyond a limit.
Similarly, Application Insights is also deployed as a regional resource to collect all application monitoring data.
For design recommendations about monitoring, seeMission-critical guidance in Well-architected Framework: Health modeling.
Next steps
Deploy the reference implementation to get a full understanding of the resources and their configuration used in this architecture.
Implementation: Mission-Critical Online
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources