Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Double encryption
Article
2025-04-23
4 contributors
In this article
Double encryption is where two or more independent layers of encryption are enabled to protect against compromises of any one layer of encryption. Using two layers of encryption mitigates threats that come with encrypting data. For example:
Configuration errors in the data encryption
Implementation errors in the encryption algorithm
Compromise of a single encryption key
Azure provides double encryption for data at rest and data in transit.
Data at rest
Microsoft’s approach to enabling two layers of encryption for data at rest is:
Encryption at rest using customer-managed keys. You provide your own key for data encryption at rest. You can bring your own keys to your Key Vault (BYOK – Bring Your Own Key), or generate new keys in Azure Key Vault to encrypt the desired resources.
Infrastructure encryption using platform-managed keys.  By default, data is automatically encrypted at rest using platform-managed encryption keys.
Data in transit
Microsoft’s approach to enabling two layers of encryption for data in transit is:
Transit encryption using Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 to protect data when it’s traveling between the cloud services and you. All traffic leaving a datacenter is encrypted in transit, even if the traffic destination is another domain controller in the same region. TLS 1.2 is the default security protocol used. TLS provides strong authentication, message privacy, and integrity (enabling detection of message tampering, interception, and forgery), interoperability, algorithm flexibility, and ease of deployment and use.
Additional layer of encryption provided at the infrastructure layer. Whenever Azure customer traffic moves between datacenters-- outside physical boundaries not controlled by Microsoft or on behalf of Microsoft-- a data-link layer encryption method using theIEEE 802.1AE MAC Security Standards(also known as MACsec) is applied from point-to-point across the underlying network hardware. The packets are encrypted and decrypted on the devices before being sent, preventing physical “man-in-the-middle” or snooping/wiretapping attacks. Because this technology is integrated on the network hardware itself, it provides line rate encryption on the network hardware with no measurable link latency increase. This MACsec encryption is on by default for all Azure traffic traveling within a region or between regions, and no action is required on customers’ part to enable.
Next steps
Learn howencryption is used in Azure.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources