Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
HBv4 sizes series
Article
2025-02-04
2 contributors
In this article
HBv4-series VMs are optimized for various HPC workloads such as computational fluid dynamics, finite element analysis, frontend and backend EDA, rendering, molecular dynamics, computational geoscience, weather simulation, and financial risk analysis. HBv4 VMs feature up to 176 AMD EPYC™ 9V33X ("Genoa-X") CPU cores with AMD's 3D V-Cache, clock frequencies up to 3.7 GHz, and no simultaneous multithreading. HBv4-series VMs also provide 768 GB of RAM, 2304 MB L3 cache. The 2304 MB L3 cache per VM can deliver up to 5.7 TB/s of bandwidth to amplify up to 780 GB/s of bandwidth from DRAM, for a blended average of 1.2 TB/s of effective memory bandwidth across a broad range of customer workloads. The VMs also provide up to 12 GB/s (reads) and 7 GB/s (writes) of block device SSD performance.
All HBv4-series VMs feature 400 Gb/s NDR InfiniBand from NVIDIA Networking to enable supercomputer-scale MPI workloads. These VMs are connected in a non-blocking fat tree for optimized and consistent RDMA performance. NDR continues to support features like Adaptive Routing and the Dynamically Connected Transport (DCT). This newest generation of InfiniBand also brings greater support for offload of MPI collectives, optimized real-world latencies due to congestion control intelligence, and enhanced adaptive routing capabilities. These features enhance application performance, scalability, and consistency, and their usage is recommended.
Host specifications
Feature support
Premium Storage: SupportedPremium Storage caching: SupportedLive Migration: Not SupportedMemory Preserving Updates: Not SupportedGeneration 2 VMs: SupportedGeneration 1 VMs: Not SupportedAccelerated Networking: SupportedEphemeral OS Disk: SupportedNested Virtualization: Not SupportedBackend Network: InfiniBand NDR
Sizes in series
Basics
Local storage
Remote storage
Network
Backend Network
Accelerators
vCPUs (Qty.) and Memory for each size
Check vCPU quotas
Local (temp) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Temp disk speed often differs between RR (Random Read) and RW (Random Write) operations. RR operations are typically faster than RW operations. The RW speed is usually slower than the RR speed on series where only the RR speed value is listed.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Remote (uncached) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Network interface info for each size
Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Expected network bandwidth is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines.
To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Network interface info for each size
Set up Infiniband on HPC VMs
Accelerator (GPUs, FPGAs, etc.) info for each size
Note
No accelerators are present in this series.
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources