Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Digital Twins query language
Article
2025-01-28
6 contributors
In this article
This article describes the basics of the query language and its capabilities. Recall that the center of Azure Digital Twins is thetwin graph, constructed from digital twins and relationships. This graph can be queried to get information about the digital twins and relationships it contains. These queries are written in a custom SQL-like query language, referred to as theAzure Digital Twins query language. This language is similar to theIoT Hub query languagewith many comparable features.
For more detailed examples of query syntax and how to run query requests, seeQuery the twin graph.
About the queries
You can use the Azure Digital Twins query language to retrieve digital twins according to their...
Properties (includingtag properties)
Models
RelationshipsProperties of the relationships
Properties of the relationships
To submit a query to the service from a client app, you'll use the Azure Digital TwinsQuery API. One way to use the API is through one of theSDKs for Azure Digital Twins.
Reference documentation
The Query language reference can be found underReferencein the left table of contents for the Azure Digital Twins documentation. You can also go directly to the reference sections using the links below:
ClausesSELECTFROMMATCHJOINWHERE
SELECT
FROM
MATCH
JOIN
WHERE
Functions
Operators
Reserved keywords
Considerations for querying
When writing queries for Azure Digital Twins, keep the following considerations in mind:
Remember case sensitivity: All Azure Digital Twins query operations are case-sensitive, so take care to use the exact names defined in the models. If property names are misspelled or incorrectly cased, the result set is empty with no errors returned.
Remember case sensitivity: All Azure Digital Twins query operations are case-sensitive, so take care to use the exact names defined in the models. If property names are misspelled or incorrectly cased, the result set is empty with no errors returned.
Escape single quotes: If your query text includes a single quote character in the data, the quote will need to be escaped with the\character. Here's an example that deals with a property value ofD'Souza:SELECT * FROM DIGITALTWINS WHERE Name = 'D\'Souza'
Escape single quotes: If your query text includes a single quote character in the data, the quote will need to be escaped with the\character. Here's an example that deals with a property value ofD'Souza:
\
SELECT * FROM DIGITALTWINS WHERE Name = 'D\'Souza'
SELECT * FROM DIGITALTWINS WHERE Name = 'D\'Souza'
If you're using the Azure CLI to run queries, you may need to escape certain additional characters to meet the requirements of various shells. For more information, seeUse special characters in different shells
If you're using the Azure CLI to run queries, you may need to escape certain additional characters to meet the requirements of various shells. For more information, seeUse special characters in different shells
Note
After making a change to the data in your graph, there may be a latency of up to 10 seconds before the changes will be reflected in queries.
TheDigitalTwins APIreflects changes immediately, so if you need an instant response, use an API request (DigitalTwins GetById) or an SDK call (GetDigitalTwin) to get twin data instead of a query.
Querying historized twin data over time
The Azure Digital Twins query language is only for querying thepresentstate of your digital twins and relationships.
To run queries on historized twin graph data collected over time, use thedata historyfeature to connect your Azure Digital Twins instance to anAzure Data Explorercluster. This will automatically historize graph updates to Azure Data Explorer, where they can be queried using theAzure Digital Twins plugin for Azure Data Explorer.
Next steps
Learn how to write queries and see client code examples inQuery the twin graph.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources