Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of Azure Service Fabric
Article
2024-08-22
22 contributors
In this article
Azure Service Fabric is adistributed systems platformthat makes it easy to package, deploy, and manage scalable and reliable microservices and containers. Service Fabric also addresses the significant challenges indeveloping and managingcloud native applications.
A key differentiator of Service Fabric is its strong focus on building stateful services. You can use the Service Fabricprogramming modelor run containerized stateful services written in any language or code. You can createService Fabric clusters anywhere, including Windows Server and Linux on premises and other public clouds, in addition to Azure.

Service Fabric powers many Microsoft services today, including Azure SQL Database, Azure Cosmos DB, Cortana, Microsoft Power BI, Microsoft Intune, Azure Event Hubs, Azure IoT Hub, Dynamics 365, Skype for Business, and many core Azure services.
Container orchestration
Service Fabric is Microsoft'scontainer orchestratorfor deploying and managing microservices across a cluster of machines, benefiting from the lessons learned running  Microsoft services at massive scale. Service Fabric can deploy applications in seconds, at high density with hundreds or thousands of applications or containers per machine. With Service Fabric, you can mix both services in processes and services in containers in the same application.
Learn more about Service Fabriccore concepts, programming models, application lifecycle, testing, clusters, and health monitoring.
Stateless and stateful microservices
Service Fabric provides a sophisticated, lightweight runtime that supports stateless and stateful microservices. A key differentiator of Service Fabric is its robust support for building stateful services, either with Service Fabricbuilt-in programming modelsor  containerized stateful services.
Learn more aboutapplication scenariosthat benefit from Service Fabric stateful services.
Application lifecycle management
Service Fabric provides support for the full application lifecycle and CI/CD of cloud applications including containers: development through deployment, daily monitoring, management, and maintenance, to eventual decommissioning. Service Fabric is integrated with CI/CD tools such asAzure Pipelines,Jenkins, andOctopus Deployand can be used with any other popular CI/CD tool.
For more information about application lifecycle management, readApplication lifecycle. For deploying existing applications to Service Fabric, seeDeploy a guest executable.
Any OS, any cloud
You can create clusters for Service Fabric in many environments, includingAzure or on premises, onWindows Server or Linux. You can even create clusters on other public clouds. The development environment in the Service Fabric SDK is identical to the production environment, with no emulators involved. In other words, what runs on your local development cluster is what deploys to your clusters in other environments.
ForWindows development, the Service Fabric .NET SDK is integrated with Visual Studio and PowerShell. ForLinux development, the Service Fabric Java SDK is integrated with Eclipse, and Yeoman is used to generate templates for Java, .NET Core, and container applications.
Compliance
Azure Service Fabric Resource Provider is available in all Azure regions and is compliant with all Azure compliance certifications, including: SOC, ISO, PCI DSS, HIPAA, and GDPR. For a complete list, seeMicrosoft compliance offerings.
Next steps
Create and deploy your first application on Azure Service Fabric:
Service Fabric quickstart
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources