Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Mission-critical workloads
Article
2024-07-31
10 contributors
In this article
This section strives to address the challenges of designing mission-critical workloads on Azure. The guidance is based on lessons learned from reviewing numerous customer applications and first-party solutions. This section provides actionable and authoritative guidance that applies Well-Architected best practices as the technical foundation for building and operating a highly reliable solution on Azure at-scale.
What is a mission-critical workload?
The termworkloadrefers to a collection of application resources that support a common business goal or the execution of a common business process, with multiple services, such as APIs and data stores, working together to deliver specific end-to-end functionality.
The termmission-criticalrefers to a criticality scale that covers significant financial cost (business-critical) or human cost (safety-critical) associated with unavailability or underperformance.
Amission-critical workloadtherefore describes a collection of application resources, which must be highly reliable on the platform. The workload must always be available, resilient to failures, and operational.
Video: Mission-critical workloads on Azure
What are the common challenges?
Microsoft Azure makes it easy to deploy and manage cloud solutions. However, building mission-critical workloads that are highly reliable on the platform remains a challenge for these main reasons:
Designing a reliable application at scale is complex. It requires extensive platform knowledge to select the right technologiesandoptimally configure them to deliver end-to-end functionality.
Designing a reliable application at scale is complex. It requires extensive platform knowledge to select the right technologiesandoptimally configure them to deliver end-to-end functionality.
Failure is inevitable in any complex distributed system, and the solution must therefore be architected to handle failures with correlated or cascading impact. This is a change in mindset for many developers and architects entering the cloud from an on-premises environment; reliability engineering is no longer an infrastructure subject, but should be a first-class concern within the application development process.
Failure is inevitable in any complex distributed system, and the solution must therefore be architected to handle failures with correlated or cascading impact. This is a change in mindset for many developers and architects entering the cloud from an on-premises environment; reliability engineering is no longer an infrastructure subject, but should be a first-class concern within the application development process.
Operationalizing mission-critical workloads requires a high degree of engineering rigor and maturity throughout the end-to-end engineering lifecycle as well as the ability to learn from failure.
Operationalizing mission-critical workloads requires a high degree of engineering rigor and maturity throughout the end-to-end engineering lifecycle as well as the ability to learn from failure.
Is mission-critical only about reliability?
While the primary focus of mission-critical workloads isReliability, other pillars of the Well-Architected Framework are equally important when building and operating a mission-critical workload on Azure.
Security: how a workload mitigates security threats, such as Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks, will have a significant bearing on overall reliability.
Security: how a workload mitigates security threats, such as Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks, will have a significant bearing on overall reliability.
Operational Excellence: how a workload is able to effectively respond to operational issues will have a direct impact on application availability.
Operational Excellence: how a workload is able to effectively respond to operational issues will have a direct impact on application availability.
Performance Efficiency: availability is more than simple uptime, but rather a consistent level of application service and performance relative to a known healthy state.
Performance Efficiency: availability is more than simple uptime, but rather a consistent level of application service and performance relative to a known healthy state.
Achieving high reliability imposes significant cost tradeoffs, which may not be justifiable for every workload scenario. It is therefore recommended that design decisions be driven by business requirements.
What are the key design areas?
Mission-critical guidance within this series is composed of architectural considerations and recommendations orientated around these key design areas.

The design areas are interrelated and decisions made within one area can impact or influence decisions across the entire design. We recommend that readers familiarize themselves with these design areas, reviewing provided considerations and recommendations to better understand the consequences of encompassed decisions. For example, to define a target architecture it's critical to determine how best to monitor application health across key components. In this instance, the reader should review thehealth modelingdesign area, using the outlined recommendations to help drive decisions.
Illustrative examples
The guidance provided within this series is based on a solution-orientated approach to illustrate key design considerations and recommendations. There are several reference implementations available that can be used as a basis for further solution development.
Baseline architecture of an internet-facing application—Provides a foundation for building a cloud-native, highly scalable, internet-facing application on Microsoft Azure. The workload is accessed over a public endpoint and doesn't require private network connectivity to a surrounding organizational technical estate.Refer to the implementation:Mission-Critical Online
Baseline architecture of an internet-facing application—Provides a foundation for building a cloud-native, highly scalable, internet-facing application on Microsoft Azure. The workload is accessed over a public endpoint and doesn't require private network connectivity to a surrounding organizational technical estate.
Refer to the implementation:Mission-Critical Online
Baseline architecture of an internet-facing application with network controls—Extends the baseline architecture with strict network controls in place to prevent unauthorized public access from the internet to any of the workload resources.
Baseline architecture of an internet-facing application with network controls—Extends the baseline architecture with strict network controls in place to prevent unauthorized public access from the internet to any of the workload resources.
Baseline architecture in an Azure landing zone—Provides a foundation for building a corporate-connected cloud-native application on Microsoft Azure using existing network infrastructure and private endpoints. The workload requires private connectivity to other organizational resources and takes a dependency on pre-provided Virtual Networks for connectivity to other organizational resources. This use case is intended for scenarios that require integration with a broader organizational technical estate for either public-facing or internal-facing workloads.Refer to the implementation:Mission-Critical Connected
Baseline architecture in an Azure landing zone—Provides a foundation for building a corporate-connected cloud-native application on Microsoft Azure using existing network infrastructure and private endpoints. The workload requires private connectivity to other organizational resources and takes a dependency on pre-provided Virtual Networks for connectivity to other organizational resources. This use case is intended for scenarios that require integration with a broader organizational technical estate for either public-facing or internal-facing workloads.
Refer to the implementation:Mission-Critical Connected
Next step
Start by reviewing the design methodology for mission-critical application scenarios.
Design methodology
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources