Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Virtual hub routing preference
Article
2024-12-10
5 contributors
In this article
A Virtual WAN virtual hub connects to virtual networks (VNets) and on-premises using connectivity gateways, such as site-to-site (S2S) VPN gateway, ExpressRoute (ER) gateway, point-to-site (P2S) gateway, and SD-WAN Network Virtual Appliance (NVA). The virtual hub router provides central route management and enables advanced routing scenarios using route propagation, route association, and custom route tables.
The virtual hub router takes routing decisions using built-in route selection algorithm. To influence routing decisions in virtual hub router towards on-premises, we now have a new Virtual WAN hub feature calledHub routing preference (HRP). When a virtual hub router learns multiple routes across S2S VPN, ER and SD-WAN NVA connections for a destination route-prefix in on-premises, the virtual hub router’s route selection algorithm adapts based on the hub routing preference configuration and selects the best routes. For steps, seeHow to configure virtual hub routing preference.
Route selection algorithm for virtual hub
This section explains the route selection algorithm in a virtual hub along with the control provided by HRP. When a virtual hub has multiple routes to a destination prefix for on-premises, the best route or routes are selected in the order of preference as follows:
Select routes with Longest Prefix Match (LPM).
Prefer static routes learned from the virtual hub route table over BGP routes.
Select best path based on the virtual hub routing preference configuration.
You can select one of the three possible virtual hub routing preference configurations: ExpressRoute, VPN, or AS Path. Each configuration is slightly different. Route rules are processed sequentially within the selected configuration until a match is made.
ExpressRoute(This is the default setting)Prefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.If there are Routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections:If all the routes are local to the virtual hub, the routes learned from ExpressRoute connections will be chosen because Virtual hub routing preference is set to ExpressRoute.If all the routes are through remote hubs, Site-to-site VPN will be preferred over ExpressRoute.Prefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length.
ExpressRoute(This is the default setting)
Prefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.
Prefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.
If there are Routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections:If all the routes are local to the virtual hub, the routes learned from ExpressRoute connections will be chosen because Virtual hub routing preference is set to ExpressRoute.If all the routes are through remote hubs, Site-to-site VPN will be preferred over ExpressRoute.
If there are Routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections:
If all the routes are local to the virtual hub, the routes learned from ExpressRoute connections will be chosen because Virtual hub routing preference is set to ExpressRoute.
If all the routes are through remote hubs, Site-to-site VPN will be preferred over ExpressRoute.
Prefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length.
Prefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length.
VPNPrefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.If there are routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections, the Site-to-site VPN routes will be chosen.Prefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length.
VPN
Prefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.
If there are routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections, the Site-to-site VPN routes will be chosen.
Prefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length.
AS PathPrefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length irrespective of the source of the route advertisements.Note: In vWANs with multiple remote virtual hubs, remote ExpressRoute routes will be selected last. This behavior is true regardless of AS-Path length.Prefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.If there are routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections:If all the routes are local to the virtual hub, the routes from ExpressRoute connections will be chosen.If all the routes are through remote virtual hubs, the routes from Site-to-site VPN connections will be chosen.
AS Path
Prefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length irrespective of the source of the route advertisements.Note: In vWANs with multiple remote virtual hubs, remote ExpressRoute routes will be selected last. This behavior is true regardless of AS-Path length.
Prefer routes with the shortest BGP AS-Path length irrespective of the source of the route advertisements.
Note: In vWANs with multiple remote virtual hubs, remote ExpressRoute routes will be selected last. This behavior is true regardless of AS-Path length.
Prefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.
Prefer routes from local virtual hub connections over routes learned from remote virtual hub.
If there are routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections:If all the routes are local to the virtual hub, the routes from ExpressRoute connections will be chosen.If all the routes are through remote virtual hubs, the routes from Site-to-site VPN connections will be chosen.
If there are routes from both ExpressRoute and Site-to-site VPN connections:
If all the routes are local to the virtual hub, the routes from ExpressRoute connections will be chosen.
If all the routes are through remote virtual hubs, the routes from Site-to-site VPN connections will be chosen.
Things to note:
When there are multiple virtual hubs in a Virtual WAN scenario, a virtual hub selects the best routes using the route selection algorithm described above, and then advertises them to the other virtual hubs in the virtual WAN.
For a given set of destination route-prefixes, if the ExpressRoute routes are preferred and the ExpressRoute connection subsequently goes down, then routes from S2S VPN or SD-WAN NVA connections will be preferred for traffic destined to the same route-prefixes. When the ExpressRoute connection is restored, traffic destined for these route-prefixes might continue to prefer the S2S VPN or SD-WAN NVA connections. To prevent this from happening, you need to configure your on-premises device to utilize AS-Path prepending for the routes being advertised to your S2S VPN Gateway and SD-WAN NVA, as you need to ensure the AS-Path length is longer for VPN/NVA routes than ExpressRoute routes.
When processing routes from remote hubs, routes learnt from hubs with routing intent private routing policies are always preferred over routes from hubs without routing intent. This is to ensure customer traffic takes the secure path when a secure path is available. To avoid asymmetric routing, enable Routing Intent on all hubs in Virtual WAN.
When a Virtual WAN hub advertises a route to another Virtual WAN hub, this route will have the ASNs 65520-65520 prepended to its AS-Path. For more details on routing in Virtual WAN, please seeVirtual WAN routing deep diveandView Virtual Hub Effective Routes.
Routing scenarios
Virtual WAN hub routing preference is beneficial when multiple on-premises are advertising routes to same destination prefixes, which can happen in customer Virtual WAN scenarios that use any of the following setups.
Virtual WAN hub using ER connections as primary and VPN connections as backup.
Virtual WAN with connections to multiple on-premises and customer is using one on-premises site as active, and another as standby for a service deployed using the same IP address ranges in both the sites.
Virtual WAN has both VPN and ER connections simultaneously and the customer is distributing services across connections by controlling route advertisements from on-premises.
The following example is a hypothetical Virtual WAN deployment that encompasses multiple scenarios described earlier. We'll use it to demonstrate the route selection by a virtual hub.
A brief overview of the setup:
Each on-premises site is connected to one or more of the virtual hubs Hub_1 or Hub_2 using S2S VPN, or ER circuit, or SD-WAN NVA connections.
Each on-premises site is connected to one or more of the virtual hubs Hub_1 or Hub_2 using S2S VPN, or ER circuit, or SD-WAN NVA connections.
For each on-premises site, the ASN it uses and the route-prefixes it advertises are listed in the diagram. Notice that there are multiple routes for several route-prefixes.
For each on-premises site, the ASN it uses and the route-prefixes it advertises are listed in the diagram. Notice that there are multiple routes for several route-prefixes.

Let’s say there are flows from a virtual network VNET1 connected to Hub_1 to various destination route-prefixes advertised by the on-premises. The path that each of those flows takes for different configurations of Virtual WANhub routing preferenceon Hub_1 and Hub_2 is described in the following tables. The paths have been labeled in the diagram and referred to in the tables for ease of understanding.
When only local routes are available:
When only remote routes are available:
When local and remote routes are available:
Key takeaways:
To prefer remote routes over local routes on a virtual hub, set its hub routing preference to AS Path and increase the AS Path length of the local routes.
Next steps
To use virtual hub routing preference, seeHow to configure virtual hub routing preference.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources