Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Identity and access management design area
Article
2024-11-28
19 contributors
In this article
The identity and access management design area provides best practices that you can use to establish the foundation of your secure and fully compliant public cloud architecture.
Enterprises can have complex and heterogenous technological landscapes, so security is critical. Robust identity and access management forms the basis of modern protection by creating a security perimeter in a public cloud. Authorization and access controls ensure that only authenticated users with verified devices can access and administer applications and resources. It ensures that the right individual can access the right resources at the right time, and for the right reason. It also provides reliable audit logging and nonrepudiation of user or workload identity actions. You should provide consistententerprise access control, including user access, control and management planes, external access, and privileged access, to improve productivity and mitigate the risk of unauthorized privilege escalation or data exfiltration.
Azure offers a comprehensive set of services, tools, and reference architectures to help your organization create highly secure and operationally efficient environments. There are several options for managing identity in a cloud environment. Each option varies in cost and complexity. Determine your cloud-based identity services based on how much you need to integrate them with your existing on-premises identity infrastructure. For more information, seeIdentity decision guide.
Identity and access management in Azure landing zones
Identity and access management is a core consideration in both platform and application landing zones. Under the design principle ofsubscription democratization, application owners should have the autonomy to manage their own applications and resources with minimal intervention from the platform team. Landing zones are a security boundary, and identity and access management provides a way to control the separation of one landing zone from another, along with components such as networking and Azure Policy. Apply a robust identity and access management design to help achieve application landing zone isolation.
The platform team is responsible for the foundation of identity and access management, including deploying and managing centralized directory services, such as Microsoft Entra ID, Microsoft Entra Domain Services, and Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS). Application landing zone administrators and users that access applications consume these services.
The application team is responsible for the identity and access management of their applications, including securing user access to applications and between application components, such as Azure SQL Database, virtual machines, and Azure Storage. In a well-implemented landing zone architecture, the application team can effortlessly consume services that the platform team provides.
Many of the fundamental concepts of identity and access management are the same in both platform and application landing zones, such as role-based access control (RBAC) and the principle of least privilege.
Design area review
Functions:Identity and access management requires the support of one or more of the following functions. The roles that perform these functions can help make and implement decisions.
Cloud platform functions
Cloud center of excellence functions
Cloud security team functions
Scope:The goal of this design area is to help you evaluate options for your identity and access foundation. When you design your identity strategy, you should perform the following tasks:
Authenticate users and workload identities.
Assign access to resources.
Determine core requirements for the separation of duties.
Synchronize hybrid identities with Microsoft Entra ID.
Out of scope:Identity and access management forms a foundation for proper access control, but it doesn't cover more advanced aspects like:
The Zero Trust model.
The operational management of elevated privileges.
Automated guardrails to prevent common identity and access mistakes.
The compliance design areas forsecurityandgovernanceaddress the out-of-scope aspects. For comprehensive recommendations for identity and access management, seeAzure identity management and access control security best practices.
Design area overview
Identity provides the basis for a wide variety of security assurance. It grants access based on identity authentication and authorization controls in cloud services. Access control protects data and resources and helps determine which requests should be permitted.
Identity and access management helps secure the internal and external boundaries of a public cloud environment. It's the foundation of any secure and fully compliant public cloud architecture.
The following articles examine design considerations and recommendations for identity and access management in a cloud environment:
Hybrid identity with Active Directory and Microsoft Entra ID
Landing zone identity and access management
Application identity and access management
For guidance about designing solutions on Azure by using established patterns and practices, seeIdentity architecture design.
Tip
If you have multiple Microsoft Entra ID tenants, seeAzure landing zones and multiple Microsoft Entra tenants.
Next steps
Hybrid identity with Active Directory and Microsoft Entra ID
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources