Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Bastion?
Article
2025-03-14
14 contributors
In this article
Azure Bastion is a fully managed PaaS service that you provision to securely connect to virtual machines via private IP address. It provides secure and seamless RDP/SSH connectivity to your virtual machines directly over TLS from the Azure portal, or via the native SSH or RDP client already installed on your local computer. When you connect via Azure Bastion, your virtual machines don't need a public IP address, agent, or special client software.
Bastion provides secure RDP and SSH connectivity to all of the VMs in the virtual network for which it's provisioned. Using Azure Bastion protects your virtual machines from exposing RDP/SSH ports to the outside world, while still providing secure access using RDP/SSH.
Key benefits
SKUs
Azure Bastion offers multiple SKU tiers. The following table shows features and corresponding SKUs. For more information about SKUs, see theConfiguration settingsarticle.
Architecture
Azure Bastion offers multiple deployment architectures, depending on the selected SKU and option configurations. For most SKUs, Bastion is deployed to a virtual network and supports virtual network peering. Specifically, Azure Bastion manages RDP/SSH connectivity to VMs created in the local or peered virtual networks.
RDP and SSH are some of the fundamental means through which you can connect to your workloads running in Azure. Exposing RDP/SSH ports over the Internet isn't desired and is seen as a significant threat surface. This is often due to protocol vulnerabilities. To contain this threat surface, you can deploy bastion hosts (also known as jump-servers) at the public side of your perimeter network. Bastion host servers are designed and configured to withstand attacks. Bastion servers also provide RDP and SSH connectivity to the workloads sitting behind the bastion, as well as further inside the network.
The SKU you select when you deploy Bastion determines the architecture and the available features. You can upgrade to a higher SKU to support more features, but you can't downgrade a SKU after deploying. Certain architectures, such as Private-only and the Bastion Developer offering, must be configured at the time of deployment. For more information about each architecture, seeBastion design and architecture.
The following diagrams show the available architectures for Azure Bastion.
Basic SKU and higher

Bastion Developer

Private-only deployment

Availability zones
Some regions support the ability to deploy Azure Bastion in an availability zone (or multiple, for zone redundancy). To deploy zonally, deploy Bastion using manually specified settings (don't deploy using the automatic default settings). Specify the desired availability zones at the time of deployment. You can't change zonal availability after Bastion is deployed.
Support for Availability Zones is currently in preview. During preview, the following regions are available:
East US
Australia East
East US 2
Central US
Qatar Central
South Africa North
West Europe
West US 2
North Europe
Sweden Central
UK South
Canada Central
Host scaling
Azure Bastion supports manual host scaling. You can configure the number of hostinstances(scale units) in order to manage the number of concurrent RDP/SSH connections that Azure Bastion can support. Increasing the number of host instances lets Azure Bastion manage more concurrent sessions. Decreasing the number of instances decreases the number of concurrent supported sessions. Azure Bastion supports up to 50 host instances. This feature is available for Standard SKU and higher.
For more information, see theConfiguration settingsarticle.
Pricing
Azure Bastion pricing is a combination of hourly pricing based on SKU and instances (scale units), plus data transfer rates. Hourly pricing starts from the moment Bastion is deployed, regardless of outbound data usage. For the latest pricing information, see theAzure Bastion pricingpage.
What's new?
Subscribe to the RSS feed and view the latest Azure Bastion feature updates on theAzure Updatespage.
Bastion FAQ
For frequently asked questions, see the BastionFAQ.
Next steps
Quickstart: Deploy Bastion automatically with default settings and Standard SKU
Quickstart: Deploy Bastion Developer
Tutorial: Deploy Bastion using specified settings and SKUs
Learn module: Introduction to Azure Bastion
Learn about some of the other keynetworking capabilitiesof Azure
Learn more about Azure network security
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources