Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Connectivity architecture
Article
2025-03-19
19 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL DatabaseSQL database in Fabric
This article explains architecture of various components that direct network traffic to a server in Azure SQL Database and SQL database in Microsoft Fabric. Learn more about different connection policies and how they impact clients connecting from within Azure and clients connecting from outside of Azure.
For connection strings to Azure SQL Database, seeConnect and query to Azure SQL Database.
For settings that control connectivity to thelogical serverfor Azure SQL Database, seeconnectivity settings.
This article doesnotapply toAzure SQL Managed Instance. Refer toConnectivity architecture for Azure SQL Managed Instance.
This article doesnotapply to decicated SQL pools in Azure Synapse Analytics.For settings that control connectivity to dedicated SQL pools in Azure Synapse Analytics, seeAzure Synapse Analytics connectivity settings.For connection strings to Azure Synapse Analytics pools, seeConnect to Synapse SQL.
For settings that control connectivity to dedicated SQL pools in Azure Synapse Analytics, seeAzure Synapse Analytics connectivity settings.
For connection strings to Azure Synapse Analytics pools, seeConnect to Synapse SQL.
Connectivity architecture
The following diagram provides a high-level overview of the connectivity architecture.

The following steps describe how a connection is established:
Clients connect to the gateway that has a public IP address and listens on port 1433.
Depending on the effective connection policy, the gateway redirects or proxies the traffic to the correct database cluster.
Inside the database cluster, traffic is forwarded to the appropriate database.
Connection policy
Logical SQL servers support the following three options for the server's connection policy setting.
Redirect (recommended):Clients establish connections directly to the node hosting the database, leading to reduced latency and improved throughput. For connections to use this mode, clients need to:Allow outbound communication from the client to all Azure SQL IP addresses in the region on ports in the range of 11000 to 11999. Use the Service Tags for SQL to make this easier to manage. If you are using Private Link, seeUse Redirect connection policy with private endpointsfor the port ranges to allow.Allow outbound communication from the client to Azure SQL Database gateway IP addresses on port 1433.When using the Redirect connection policy, refer to theAzure IP Ranges and Service Tags – Public Cloudfor a list of your region's IP addresses to allow.NoteCurrently, the connection policy forSQL database in Microsoft Fabricisredirectand cannot be changed.
Redirect (recommended):Clients establish connections directly to the node hosting the database, leading to reduced latency and improved throughput. For connections to use this mode, clients need to:
Allow outbound communication from the client to all Azure SQL IP addresses in the region on ports in the range of 11000 to 11999. Use the Service Tags for SQL to make this easier to manage. If you are using Private Link, seeUse Redirect connection policy with private endpointsfor the port ranges to allow.
Allow outbound communication from the client to Azure SQL Database gateway IP addresses on port 1433.
When using the Redirect connection policy, refer to theAzure IP Ranges and Service Tags – Public Cloudfor a list of your region's IP addresses to allow.
Note
Currently, the connection policy forSQL database in Microsoft Fabricisredirectand cannot be changed.
Proxy:In this mode, all connections are proxied via the Azure SQL Database gateways, leading to increased latency and reduced throughput. For connections to use this mode, clients need to allow outbound communication from the client to Azure SQL Database gateway IP addresses on port 1433.When using the Proxy connection policy, refer to theGateway IP addresseslist later in this article for your region's IP addresses to allow.
Proxy:In this mode, all connections are proxied via the Azure SQL Database gateways, leading to increased latency and reduced throughput. For connections to use this mode, clients need to allow outbound communication from the client to Azure SQL Database gateway IP addresses on port 1433.
When using the Proxy connection policy, refer to theGateway IP addresseslist later in this article for your region's IP addresses to allow.
Default:This is the connection policy in effect on all servers after creation unless you explicitly alter the connection policy to eitherProxyorRedirect. The default policy is:Redirectfor all client connections originating inside of Azure (for example, from an Azure Virtual Machine).Proxyfor all client connections originating outside (for example, connections from your local workstation).
Default:This is the connection policy in effect on all servers after creation unless you explicitly alter the connection policy to eitherProxyorRedirect. The default policy is:
Proxy
Redirect
Redirectfor all client connections originating inside of Azure (for example, from an Azure Virtual Machine).
Redirect
Proxyfor all client connections originating outside (for example, connections from your local workstation).
Proxy
We highly recommend theRedirectconnection policy over theProxyconnection policy for the lowest latency and highest throughput. However, you need to meet the extra requirements for allowing network traffic for outbound communication:
Redirect
Proxy
If the client is an Azure Virtual Machine, you can accomplish this using Network Security Groups (NSG) withservice tags.
If the client is connecting from a workstation on-premises, you might need to work with your network admin to allow network traffic through your corporate firewall.
To change the connection policy, seeChange the connection policy.
Connectivity from within Azure
If you're connecting from within Azure your connections have a connection policy ofRedirectby default. A policy ofRedirectmeans that after the TCP session is established, the client session is then redirected to the right database cluster with a change to the destination virtual IP from that of the Azure SQL Database gateway to that of the cluster. Thereafter, all subsequent packets flow directly to the cluster, bypassing the gateway. The following diagram illustrates this traffic flow.
Redirect
Redirect

Connectivity from outside of Azure
If you're connecting from outside Azure, your connections have a connection policy ofProxyby default. A policy ofProxymeans that the TCP session is established via the Azure SQL Database gateway and all subsequent packets flow via the gateway. The following diagram illustrates this traffic flow.
Proxy
Proxy

Important
Open TCP ports 1434 and 14000-14999 to enableConnecting with DAC.
Gateway IP addresses
The table below lists the individual Gateway IP addresses and Gateway IP address subnets per region.
Periodically, Microsoft retires individualGateway IP addressesand migrates the traffic toGateway IP address subnets, as per the process outlined atAzure SQL Database traffic migration to newer Gateways.
We strongly encourage customers to move away from relying onany individual Gateway IP address(since these will be retired in the future). Instead allow network traffic to reachboththe individual Gateway IP addresses and Gateway IP address subnets in a region.
Important
Logins for SQL Database can land onany of the individual Gateway IP addresses or Gateway IP address subnets in a region. For consistent connectivity to SQL Database, allow network traffic to and fromall the individual Gateway IP addresses and Gateway IP address subnetsin a region.
Logins for SQL Database can land onany of the individual Gateway IP addresses or Gateway IP address subnets in a region. For consistent connectivity to SQL Database, allow network traffic to and fromall the individual Gateway IP addresses and Gateway IP address subnetsin a region.
Use the individual Gateway IP addresses and Gateway IP address subnets in this section if you're using a Proxy connection policy to connect to the database.
Use the individual Gateway IP addresses and Gateway IP address subnets in this section if you're using a Proxy connection policy to connect to the database.
If you're using the Redirect connection policy, refer to theAzure IP Ranges and Service Tags - Public Cloudfor a list of your region's IP addresses to allow.
If you're using the Redirect connection policy, refer to theAzure IP Ranges and Service Tags - Public Cloudfor a list of your region's IP addresses to allow.
Related content
For information about Azure SQL Database connection behavior for clients that use ADO.NET 4.5 or a later version, seePorts beyond 1433 for ADO.NET 4.5.
For general application development overview information, seeSQL Database Application Development Overview.
Refer toAzure IP Ranges and Service Tags – Public Cloud.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources