Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Plan application migration to Microsoft Entra ID
Article
2023-12-19
7 contributors
In this article
In this article, you learn about the benefits of Microsoft Entra ID and how to plan for migrating your application authentication. This article gives an overview of the planning and exit criteria to help you plan your migration strategy and understand how Microsoft Entra authentication can support your organizational goals.
The process is broken into four phases. Each phase contains detailed planning and exit criteria that help you plan your migration strategy and understand how Microsoft Entra authentication supports your organizational goals.
Introduction
Today, your organization requires numerous applications for users to get work done. You likely continue to add, develop, or retire apps every day. Users access these applications from a vast range of corporate and personal devices, and locations. They open apps in many ways, including:
Through a company homepage, or portal
By bookmarking or adding favorites on their browsers
Through a vendor’s URL for software as a service (SaaS) apps
Links pushed directly to user’s desktops or mobile devices via a mobile device/application management (MDM/ MAM) solution
Your applications are likely using the following types of authentication:
Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) or OpenID Connect (OIDC) via an on-premises or cloud-hosted Identity and Access Management (IAM) solutions federation solution (such as Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS), Okta, or Ping)
Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) or OpenID Connect (OIDC) via an on-premises or cloud-hosted Identity and Access Management (IAM) solutions federation solution (such as Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS), Okta, or Ping)
Kerberos or NTLM via Active Directory
Kerberos or NTLM via Active Directory
Header-based authentication via Ping Access
Header-based authentication via Ping Access
To ensure that the users can easily and securely access applications, your goal is to have a single set of access controls and policies across your on-premises and cloud environments.
Microsoft Entra IDoffers a universal identity platform that provides your employees, partners, and customers a single identity to access the applications they want. The platform boosts collaboration from any platform and device.

Microsoft Entra ID has afull suite of identity management capabilities. Standardizing your app authentication and authorization to Microsoft Entra ID gets you the benefits that these capabilities provide.
You can find more migration resources athttps://aka.ms/migrateapps
Plan your migration phases and project strategy
When technology projects fail, it's often due to mismatched expectations, the right stakeholders not being involved, or a lack of communication. Ensure your success by planning the project itself.
The phases of migration
Before we get into the tools, you should understand how to think through the migration process. Through several direct-to-customer workshops, we recommend the following four phases:

Assemble the project team
Application migration is a team effort, and you need to ensure that you have all the vital positions filled. Support from senior business leaders is important. Ensure that you involve the right set of executive sponsors, business decision-makers, and subject matter experts (SMEs.)
During the migration project, one person might fulfill multiple roles, or multiple people fulfill each role, depending on your organization’s size and structure. You might also have a dependency on other teams that play a key role in your security landscape.
The following table includes the key roles and their contributions:
Plan communications
Effective business engagement and communication are the keys to success. It's important to give stakeholders and end-users an avenue to get information and keep informed of schedule updates. Educate everyone about the value of the migration, what the expected timelines are, and how to plan for any temporary business disruption. Use multiple avenues such as briefing sessions, emails, one-to-one meetings, banners, and town halls.
Based on the communication strategy that you choose for the app you might want to remind users of the pending downtime. You should also verify that there are no recent changes or business impacts that would require to postpone the deployment.
In the following table, you find the minimum suggested communication to keep your stakeholders informed:
Plan phases and project strategy
Phase 1- Discover and Scope:
Phase 2- Classify apps and plan pilot:
Phase 3 – Plan migration and testing:
Phase 4 – Manage and gain insights:
Migration states communication dashboard
Communicating the overall state of the migration project is crucial, as it shows progress, and helps app owners whose apps are coming up for migration to prepare for the move. You can put together a simple dashboard using Power BI or other reporting tools to provide visibility into the status of applications during the migration.
The migration states you might consider using are as follows:
This phase ensures app owners know what the app migration and testing schedule are when their apps are up for migration. They also know what the results are from other migrated apps. You might also consider providing links to your bug tracker database for owners to be able to file and view issues for apps that are being migrated.
Next steps
Phase 1 - Discover and Scope.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources