Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4 for API for NoSQL: release notes and resources
Article
2024-08-14
7 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:NoSQL
.NET SDK v3
.NET SDK v2
.NET Core SDK v2
.NET Change Feed SDK v2
Node.js
Java SDK v4
Sync Java SDK v2
Async Java SDK v2
Spring Data v2
Spring Data v3
Spring Data v5
Python
Go
REST
REST Resource Provider
SQL
Bulk executor - .NET  v2
Bulk executor - Java
The Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4 for NoSQL combines an Async API and a Sync API into one Maven artifact. The v4 SDK brings enhanced performance, new API features, and Async support based on Project Reactor and theNetty library. Users can expect improved performance with Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4 versus theAzure Cosmos DB Async Java SDK v2and theAzure Cosmos DB Sync Java SDK v2.
Important
These Release Notes are for Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4 only. If you are currently using an older version than v4, see theMigrate to Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4guide for help upgrading to v4.
Here are three steps to get going fast!
Install theminimum supported Java runtime, JDK 8so you can use the SDK.
Work through theQuickstart Guide for Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4which gets you access to the Maven artifact and walks through basic Azure Cosmos DB requests.
Read the Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4performance tipsandtroubleshootingguides to optimize the SDK for your application.
TheAzure Cosmos DB workshops and labsare another great resource for learning how to use Azure Cosmos DB Java SDK v4!
Helpful content
Important
The 4.13.0 release updatesreactor-coreandreactor-nettymajor versions to2020.0.4 (Europium)release train.
reactor-core
reactor-netty
2020.0.4 (Europium)
Release history
Release history is maintained in the azure-sdk-for-java repo, for detailed list of releases, see thechangelog file.
Recommended version
It's strongly recommended to use version 4.64.0 and above.
FAQ
How will I be notified of the retiring SDK?
Microsoft will provide 12 month's advance notice before the end of support of the retiring SDK to facilitate a smooth transition to a supported SDK. We'll notify you through various communication channels: the Azure portal, Azure updates, and direct communication to assigned service administrators.
Can I author applications by using a to-be-retired Azure Cosmos DB SDK during the 12-month period?
Yes, you'll be able to author, deploy, and modify applications by using the to-be-retired Azure Cosmos DB SDK during the 12-month notice period. We recommend that you migrate to a newer supported version of the Azure Cosmos DB SDK during the 12-month notice period, as appropriate.
After the retirement date, what happens to applications that use the unsupported Azure Cosmos DB SDK?
After the retirement date, Azure Cosmos DB will no longer make bug fixes, add new features, or provide support to the retired SDK versions. If you prefer not to upgrade, requests sent from the retired versions of the SDK will continue to be served by the Azure Cosmos DB service.
Which SDK versions will have the latest features and updates?
New features and updates will be added only to the latest minor version of the latest supported major SDK version. We recommend that you always use the latest version to take advantage of new features, performance improvements, and bug fixes. If you're using an old, non-retired version of the SDK, your requests to Azure Cosmos DB will still function, but you won't have access to any new capabilities.
What should I do if I can't update my application before a cutoff date?
We recommend that you upgrade to the latest SDK as early as possible. After an SDK is tagged for retirement, you'll have 12 months to update your application. If you're not able to update by the retirement date, requests sent from the retired versions of the SDK will continue to be served by Azure Cosmos DB, so your running applications will continue to function. But Azure Cosmos DB will no longer make bug fixes, add new features, or provide support to the retired SDK versions.
If you have a support plan and require technical support,contact usby filing a support ticket.
How can I request features be added to an SDK or connector?
New features are not always added to every SDK or connector immediately. If there is a feature not supported that you would like added, please add feedback to ourcommunity forum.
Next steps
To learn more about Azure Cosmos DB, seeMicrosoft Azure Cosmos DBservice page.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources