Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Java support on Azure and Azure Stack
Article
2024-07-15
6 contributors
In this article
Java developers can build, integrate, and deploy applications to various Azure and Azure Stack services. Developers are free to use the distribution and version of the Java Development Kit (JDK) of their choice for most Microsoft Azure services. Microsoft provides and manages the Java runtime for certain services on behalf of customers. This document helps you understand which services provide a Java runtime by default, and which services you can bring your own Java runtime to.
Important
Update June 30th, 2021: Zulu for Azure no longer receives updates or support since January 1st, 2022. Azure services have transitioned toMicrosoft Build of OpenJDKfor JDK 11 andEclipse Temurinfor JDK 8. For more information, seeEnd of Updates, Support and Availability of the Zulu for Azure builds of OpenJDK.
Supported Java versions and update schedule
For more information, seeMicrosoft Build of OpenJDK Support Policy.
For information about the Java version availability for specific Azure services, see the service documentation.
Services with a managed or default Java runtime
For the following services, Microsoft manages the Java runtime or provides one by default:
Azure App Service on Windows
Azure App Service on Linux
Azure Container Apps, throughcode to cloud
Azure Functions
Azure Spring Apps
Azure Service Fabric
Azure HDInsight
Azure Cognitive Search
Azure Cloud Shell
Azure DevOps
Azure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandra
Azure Cosmos DB for Apache Cassandra
For some of the services, you might be able to change the Java runtime from the one provided by default. For more information, see the documentation of the service.
OpenJDK distributions deployed
Microsoft might use 3rd-party Java distributions and binaries for a range of Java versions on some of its services - namelyEclipse Temurin. Microsoft keeps those 3rd-party distributions up to date for as long as there are updates available. For all other cases, Microsoft builds, supports, and deploys theMicrosoft Build of OpenJDK.
Services without a managed or default Java runtime
The choice of the Java runtime is up to you in the following cases:
With Azure services such as Azure Virtual Machines, Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS), Azure Container Instances (ACI), Azure Container Apps (ACA), Azure Red Hat OpenShift, and Azure App Service Web App for Containers.
With services where users must manually configure the infrastructure and its components.
While Java developers can bring their own Java runtimes from different vendors to Azure on these services, Microsoft recommends that you use any of the following OpenJDK distributions:
Microsoft Build of OpenJDK
Eclipse Adoptium Temurin
For information on how to install and use OpenJDK, see the documentation for one of these distributions.
Customer support
For issues related to the deployment of Java applications to Azure, Azure Stack services, Azure Arc enabled clusters, and integration with Azure REST APIs, customers with aqualifying support planreceive support without any extra cost.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources