Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Custom Translator?
Article
2025-04-14
4 contributors
In this article
Custom Translator is a feature of theAzure AI Translatorservice, which enables enterprises, app developers, and language service providers to build customized neural machine translation (NMT) systems. The customized translation systems seamlessly integrate into existing applications, workflows, and websites.
Translation systems built withCustom Translatorare available through Microsoft TranslatorMicrosoft Translator Text API V3, the same cloud-based, secure, high performance system powering billions of translations every day.
The platform enables users to build and publish custom translation systems to and from English. Custom Translator supports more than three dozen languages that map directly to the languages available for NMT. For a complete list,seeTranslator language support.
This documentation contains the following article types:
Quickstartsare getting-started instructions to guide you through making requests to the service.
How-to guidescontain instructions for using the feature in more specific or customized ways.
Features
Custom Translator provides different features to build custom translation system and later access it.
Get better translations
Microsoft Translator releasedNeural Machine Translation (NMT)in 2016. NMT provided major advances in translation quality over the industry-standardStatistical Machine Translation (SMT)technology. Because NMT better captures the context of full sentences before translating them, it provides higher quality, more human-sounding, and more fluent translations.Custom Translatorprovides NMT for your custom models resulting better translation quality.
You can use previously translated documents to build a translation system. These documents include domain-specific terminology and style, better than a standard translation system. Users can uploadALIGN,PDF,LCL,HTML,HTM,XLF,TMX,XLIFF,TXT,DOCX, andXLSXdocuments.
ALIGN
PDF
LCL
HTML
HTM
XLF
TMX
XLIFF
TXT
DOCX
XLSX
Custom Translator also accepts data that's parallel at the document level to make data collection and preparation more effective. If users have access to versions of the same content in multiple languages but in separate documents, Custom Translator is able to automatically match sentences across documents.
If the appropriate type and amount of training data is supplied, it's not uncommon to seeBLEUscoregains between 5 and 10 points by using Custom Translator.
BLEU
Be productive and cost effective
WithCustom Translator, training and deploying a custom system doesn't require any programming skills.
The secureCustom Translatorportal enables users to upload training data, train systems, test systems, and deploy them to a production environment through an intuitive user interface. The system is available for use at scale within a few hours (actual time depends on training data size).
Custom Translatorcan also be programmatically accessed through a dedicated API. The API allows users to manage the creating or updating of training through their own app or web service.
The cost of using a custom model to translate content is based on the user's Translator Text API pricing tier. See the Azure AI servicesTranslator Text API pricing webpagefor pricing tier details.
Securely translate anytime, anywhere on all your apps and services
Custom systems can be seamlessly accessed and integrated into any product or business workflow and on any device via the Microsoft Translator Text REST API.
Next steps
Learn more aboutpricing details.
Learn more aboutpricing details.
Try theQuickstartand learn to build a translation model in Custom Translator.
Try theQuickstartand learn to build a translation model in Custom Translator.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources