Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Automatic database tuning
Article
2025-02-13
12 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL DatabaseAzure SQL Managed InstanceSQL database in Fabric
Automatic tuning provides peak performance and stable workloads through continuous performance tuning based on AI and machine learning.
Automatic tuning is a fully managed, intelligent performance service that continuously monitors queries executed on a database, and automatically improves performance. This is achieved through dynamically adapting a database to changing workloads and applying tuning recommendations.
Automatic tuning learns horizontally from all databases on Azure through AI, and dynamically improves its tuning actions.
Safe, reliable, and proven
Tuning operations applied to databases are fully safe for performance of your most intense workloads. The system has been designed with care not to interfere with user workloads.

Automated tuning recommendations are applied only at the times of a low utilization of CPU, Data IO, and Log IO. The system can also temporarily disable automatic tuning operations to protect workload performance. In such case, "Disabled by the system" message will be shown in Azure portal and insys.database_automatic_tuning_optionsdynamic management view. Automatic tuning is designed to give user workloads the highest resource priority.
Automatic tuning mechanisms are mature and have been perfected on several million databases running on Azure. Automated tuning operations applied are verified automatically to ensure there's a notable positive improvement to workload performance. If there's no improvement, or in the unlikely case performance regresses, changes made by automatic tuning are promptly reverted. Through thetuning historyrecorded, there exists a clear trace of tuning improvements made to each database in Azure SQL Database. The longer a database runs with automatic tuning enabled, the more it might benefit.
Azure SQL automatic tuning shares its core logic with the SQL Server automatic tuning feature in the database engine. For additional technical information on the built-in intelligence mechanism, seeSQL Server automatic tuning.
Tip
For more information, seeBlog: Artificial Intelligence tunes Azure SQL Database.
Read the Microsoft Research PDF onautomatically indexing millions of databases in Microsoft Azure SQL Database.
What can automatic tuning do for you
Automated performance tuning of databases includes:
Automated verification of performance gains
Automated rollback and self-correction
Tuning history
Tuning action Transact-SQL (T-SQL) scripts for manual deployments
Scale out capability on hundreds of thousands of databases
Positive impact to DevOps resources and the total cost of ownership
Enable automatic tuning
Azure SQL Database:Enable automatic tuning in the Azure portalor by using theALTER DATABASET-SQL statement.
Azure SQL Managed Instance: Enable automatic tuning by using theALTER DATABASET-SQL statement.
SQL database in Microsoft Fabric: Enabled by default. For more information, seePerformance Dashboard for SQL database in Microsoft Fabric.
Automatic tuning options
The automatic tuning options available in Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance are:
Automatic tuning for Azure SQL Database
Automatic tuning for Azure SQL Database uses theCREATE INDEX,DROP INDEX, andFORCE_LAST_GOOD_PLANdatabase advisor recommendations to optimize your database performance. For more information, seeFind and apply performance recommendations in the Azure portal, inPowerShell, and in theREST API.
You can either manually apply tuning recommendations using the Azure portal, or you can let automatic tuning autonomously apply tuning recommendations for you. The benefits of letting the system autonomously apply tuning recommendations for you is that it automatically validates there exists a positive gain to workload performance, and if there's no significant performance improvement detected or if performance regresses, the system automatically reverts the changes that were made. Depending on query execution frequency, the validation process can take from 30 minutes to 72 hours, taking longer for less frequently executing queries. If at any point during validation a regression is detected, changes are reverted immediately.
Important
In case you are applying tuning recommendations through T-SQL, the automatic performance validation and reversal mechanisms are not available. Recommendations applied in such way will remain active and shown in the list of tuning recommendations for 24-48 hours before the system automatically withdraws them. If you would like to remove a recommendation sooner, you can discard it from Azure portal.
Automatic tuning options can be independently enabled or disabled for each database, or they can be configured at the server-level and applied on every database that inherits settings from the server. By default, new servers inherit Azure defaults for automatic tuning settings. Azure defaults are set to FORCE_LAST_GOOD_PLAN enabled, CREATE_INDEX disabled, and DROP_INDEX disabled.
Configuring automatic tuning options on a server and inheriting settings for databases belonging to the parent server is the recommended method for configuring automatic tuning. It simplifies management of automatic tuning options for a large number of databases.
To learn about building email notifications for automatic tuning recommendations, seeEmail notifications for automatic tuning.
Automatic tuning for Azure SQL Managed Instance
Automatic tuning for SQL Managed Instance only supportsFORCE LAST GOOD PLAN. For more information about configuring automatic tuning options through T-SQL, seeAutomatic tuning introduces automatic plan correctionandAutomatic plan correction.
Automatic tuning for SQL database in Microsoft Fabric
The automatic tuning option toCREATE INDEXis enabled automatically inSQL database in Microsoft Fabric.
Samples to enable
For more information, seeALTER DATABASE SET options.
To inherit the default configuration from the parent logical server, use the following T-SQL. In the Azure portal, this reflects the option to "Inherit from: Server".
ALTER DATABASE CURRENT 
SET AUTOMATIC_TUNING = INHERIT;
ALTER DATABASE CURRENT 
SET AUTOMATIC_TUNING = INHERIT;
To enable theCREATE INDEXandDROP INDEXautomatic tuning options, use the following T-SQL.
ALTER DATABASE CURRENT 
SET AUTOMATIC_TUNING 
(CREATE_INDEX = ON, DROP_INDEX = ON);
ALTER DATABASE CURRENT 
SET AUTOMATIC_TUNING 
(CREATE_INDEX = ON, DROP_INDEX = ON);
Automatic tuning history
For Azure SQL Database, the history of changes made by automatic tuning is retained for 21 days. It can be viewed in Azure portal on the Performance recommendations page for a database, or using PowerShell with theGet-AzSqlDatabaseRecommendedActioncmdlet. For longer retention, history data can also be streamed to several types of destinations by enabling theAutomaticTuningdiagnostic setting.
Related content
Learn how automatic tuning can proactively help youDiagnose and troubleshoot high CPU on Azure SQL Database
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources