Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Virtual network scenarios and resources
Article
2024-08-29
13 contributors
In this article
Azure Virtual Networkprovides secure, private networking for your Azure and on-premises resources. By deploying container groups into an Azure virtual network, your containers can communicate securely with other resources in the virtual network.
This article provides background about virtual network scenarios, limitations, and resources. For deployment examples using the Azure CLI, seeDeploy container instances into an Azure virtual network.
Important
Container group deployment to a virtual network is generally available for Linux and Windows containers, in most regions where Azure Container Instances is available. For details, seeResource availability and quota limits.
Scenarios
Container groups deployed into an Azure virtual network enable scenarios like:
Direct communication between container groups in the same subnet
Sendtask-basedworkload output from container instances to a database in the virtual network
Retrieve content for container instances from aservice endpointin the virtual network
Enable container communication with on-premises resources through aVPN gatewayorExpressRoute
Integrate withAzure Firewallto identify outbound traffic originating from the container
Resolve names via the internal Azure DNS for communication with Azure resources in the virtual network, such as virtual machines
Use NSG rules to control container access to subnets or other network resources
Unsupported networking scenarios
Azure Load Balancer- Placing an Azure Load Balancer in front of container instances in a networked container group isn't supported
Global virtual network peering- Global peering (connecting virtual networks across Azure regions) isn't supported
Public IP or DNS label- Container groups deployed to a virtual network don't currently support exposing containers directly to the internet with a public IP address or a fully qualified domain name
Managed Identity with Virtual Network in Azure Government Regions- Managed Identity with virtual networking capabilities isn't supported in Azure Government Regions
Other limitations
To deploy container groups to a subnet, the subnet can't contain other resource types. Remove all existing resources from an existing subnet before deploying container groups to it, or create a new subnet.
To deploy container groups to a subnet, the subnet and the container group must be on the same Azure subscription.
Due to the additional networking resources involved, deployments to a virtual network are typically slower than deploying a standard container instance.
Outbound connections to port 25 and 19390 aren't supported at this time. Port 19390 needs to be opened in your Firewall for connecting to ACI from Azure portal when container groups are deployed in virtual networks.
For inbound connections, the firewall should also allow all ip addresses within the virtual network.
If you're connecting your container group to an Azure Storage Account, you must add aservice endpointto that resource.
IPv6 addressesaren't supported at this time.
Depending on your subscription type,certain ports could be blocked.
Container instances don't read or inherit DNS settings from an associated virtual network. DNS settings must be explicitly set for container instances.
Required network resources
There are three Azure Virtual Network resources required for deploying container groups to a virtual network: thevirtual networkitself, adelegated subnetwithin the virtual network, and anetwork profile.
Virtual network
A virtual network defines the address space in which you create one or more subnets. You then deploy Azure resources (like container groups) into the subnets in your virtual network.
Subnet (delegated)
Subnets segment the virtual network into separate address spaces usable by the Azure resources you place in them. You create one or several subnets within a virtual network.
The subnet that you use for container groups can contain only container groups. Before you deploy a container group to a subnet, you must explicitly delegate the subnet before provisioning. Once delegated, the subnet can be used only for container groups. If you attempt to deploy resources other than container groups to a delegated subnet, the operation fails.
Network profile
Important
Network profileshave been retired as of the2021-07-01API version. If you're using this or a more recent version, ignore any steps and actions related to network profiles.
2021-07-01
A network profile is a network configuration template for Azure resources. It specifies certain network properties for the resource, for example, the subnet into which it should be deployed. When you first use theaz container createcommand to deploy a container group to a subnet (and thus a virtual network), Azure creates a network profile for you. You can then use that network profile for future deployments to the subnet.
To use a Resource Manager template, YAML file, or a programmatic method to deploy a container group to a subnet, you need to provide the full Resource Manager resource ID of a network profile. You can use a profile previously created usingaz container create, or create a profile using a Resource Manager template (seetemplate exampleandreference). To get the ID of a previously created profile, use theaz network profile listcommand.
The following diagram depicts several container groups deployed to a subnet delegated to Azure Container Instances. Once you deploy one container group to a subnet, you can deploy more container groups to it by specifying the same network profile.

Next steps
For deployment examples with the Azure CLI, seeDeploy container instances into an Azure virtual network.
To deploy a new virtual network, subnet, network profile, and container group using a Resource Manager template, seeCreate an Azure container group with virtual network.
When using theAzure portalto create a container instance, you can also provide settings for a new or existing virtual network on theNetworkingtab.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources