Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Functions Consumption plan hosting
Article
2024-05-21
6 contributors
In this article
When you're using the Consumption plan, instances of the Azure Functions host are dynamically added and removed based on the number of incoming events. The Consumption plan, along with theFlex Consumption plan, is a fullyserverlesshosting option for Azure Functions.
Benefits
The Consumption plan scales automatically, even during periods of high load. When running functions in a Consumption plan, you're charged for compute resources only when your functions are running. On a Consumption plan, a function execution times out after a configurable period of time.
For a comparison of the Consumption plan against the other plan and hosting types, seefunction scale and hosting options.
Tip
If you want the benefits of dynamic scale and execution-only billing, but also need to integrate your app with virtual networks, you should instead consider hosting your app in theFlex Consumption plan.
Billing
Billing is based on number of executions, execution time, and memory used. Usage is aggregated across all functions within a function app. For more information, see theAzure Functions pricing page.
To learn more about how to estimate costs when running in a Consumption plan, seeUnderstanding Consumption plan costs.
Create a Consumption plan function app
When you create a function app in the Azure portal, the Consumption plan is the default. When using APIs to create your function app, you don't have to first create an App Service plan as you do with Premium and Dedicated plans.
In Consumption plan hosting, each function app typically runs in its own plan. In the Azure portal or in code, you may also see the Consumption plan referred to asDynamicorY1.
Dynamic
Y1
Use the following links to learn how to create a serverless function app in a Consumption plan, either programmatically or in the Azure portal:
Azure CLI
Azure portal
Azure Resource Manager template
You can also create function apps in a Consumption plan when you publish a Functions project fromVisual Studio CodeorVisual Studio.
Multiple apps in the same plan
The general recommendation is for each function app to have its own Consumption plan. However, if needed, function apps in the same region can be assigned to the same Consumption plan. Keep in mind that there is alimit to the number of function apps that can run in a Consumption plan. Function apps in the same plan still scale independently of each other.
Next steps
Azure Functions hosting options
Event-driven scaling in Azure Functions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources