Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines?
Article
2024-09-27
16 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL Server on Azure VM
Windows
Linux
This article provides an overview of SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs) on the Windows platform.
If you're new to SQL Server on Azure VMs, check out theSQL Server on Azure VM Overviewvideo from our in-depthAzure SQL video series:
Overview
SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machinesenables you to use full versions of SQL Server in the cloud without having to manage any on-premises hardware. SQL Server virtual machines (VMs) also simplify licensing costs when you pay as you go.
Azure virtual machines run in many differentgeographic regionsaround the world. They also offer variousmachine sizes. The virtual machine image gallery allows you to create a SQL Server VM with the right version, edition, and operating system. This makes virtual machines a good option for many different SQL Server workloads.
Feature benefits
When you register your SQL Server on Azure VM with theSQL IaaS Agent extensionyou unlock a number of feature benefits. Registering with the extension is completely free.
The following table details the benefits unlocked by the extension:
Getting started
To get started with SQL Server on Azure VMs, review the following resources:
Create SQL VM: To create your SQL Server on Azure VM, review the Quickstarts using theAzure portal,Azure PowerShellor anARM template. For more thorough guidance, review theProvisioning guide.
Connect to SQL VM: To connect to your SQL Server on Azure VMs, review theways to connect.
Unlock feature benefits: Registering your SQL Server VM with theSQL IaaS Agent extensionunlocks a number of feature benefits, such as automated backup and patching.
Manage SQL VM from the portal: You can manage SQL Server settings directly from the Azure portal by using theSQL virtual machinesresource.
Optimize performance: Use theSQL best practices assessmentto validate that you're followingBest practicesand useI/O Performance Analysisto investigate I/O issues.
Migrate data: Migrate your data to SQL Server on Azure VMs fromSQL Server,Oracle, orDb2.
Pricing: For information about the pricing structure of your SQL Server on Azure VM, review thePricing guidance.
Frequently asked questions: For commonly asked questions, and scenarios, review theFAQ.
Videos
For videos about the latest features to optimize SQL Server VM performance and automate management, review the following Data Exposed videos:
Caching and Storage Capping
Automate Management with the SQL Server IaaS Agent extension
Use Azure Monitor Metrics to Track VM Cache Health
Get the best price-performance for your SQL Server workloads on Azure VM
Using PerfInsights to Evaluate Resource Health and Troubleshoot
Best Price-Performance with Ebdsv5 Series
Optimally Configure SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines with SQL Assessment
New and Improved SQL Server on Azure VM deployment and management experience
High availability & disaster recovery
On top of the built-inhigh availability provided by Azure virtual machines, you can also use the high availability and disaster recovery features provided by SQL Server.
To learn more, see the overview ofAlways On availability groups, andAlways On failover cluster instances. For more information, see thebusiness continuity overview.
To get started, see the tutorials foravailability groupsorpreparing your VM for a failover cluster instance.
Licensing
To get started, choose a SQL Server virtual machine image with your required version, edition, and operating system. The following sections provide direct links to the Azure portal for the SQL Server virtual machine gallery images. Change the licensing model of a pay-per-usage SQL Server VM to use your own license. For more information, seeHow to change the licensing model for a SQL Server VM.
Azure only maintains one virtual machine image for each supported operating system, version, and edition combination. This means that over time images are refreshed, and older images are removed. For more information, see theImagessection of theSQL Server VMs FAQ.
Tip
For more information about how to understand pricing for SQL Server images, seePricing guidance for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.
The following table provides a matrix of pay-as-you-go SQL Server images.
Note
SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 R2 are out of extended support and no longer available from the Azure Marketplace.
To see the available SQL Server on Linux virtual machine images, seeOverview of SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (Linux).
It's possible to deploy an older image of SQL Server that isn't available in the Azure portal by using PowerShell. To view all available images by using PowerShell, use the following command:
$Location = "<location>"
Get-AzVMImageOffer -Location $Location -Publisher 'MicrosoftSQLServer'
$Location = "<location>"
Get-AzVMImageOffer -Location $Location -Publisher 'MicrosoftSQLServer'
For more information about deploying SQL Server VMs using PowerShell, viewHow to provision SQL Server virtual machines with Azure PowerShell.
Important
Older images might be outdated. Remember to apply all SQL Server and Windows updates before using them for production.
Customer experience improvement program (CEIP)
The Customer Experience Improvement Program (CEIP) is enabled by default. This periodically sends reports to Microsoft to help improve SQL Server. There's no management task required with CEIP unless you want to disable it after provisioning. You can customize or disable the CEIP by connecting to the VM with remote desktop. Then run theSQL Server Error and Usage Reportingutility. Follow the instructions to disable reporting. For more information about data collection, see theSQL Server Privacy Statement.
Related products and services
Since SQL Server on Azure VMs is integrated into the Azure platform, review resources from related products and services that interact with the SQL Server on Azure VM ecosystem:
Windows virtual machines:Azure Virtual Machines overview
Storage:Introduction to Microsoft Azure Storage
Networking:Virtual Network overview,IP addresses in Azure,Create a Fully Qualified Domain Name in the Azure portal
SQL:SQL Server documentation,Azure SQL Database comparison
Related content
Quickstart: Create SQL Server VM in the Azure portal
SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines FAQ
Windows N-tier application on Azure with SQL Server
Run an N-tier application in multiple Azure regions for high availability
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources