Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Custom categories (preview)
Article
2025-01-22
4 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Content Safety lets you create and manage your own content categories for enhanced moderation and filtering that matches your specific policies or use cases.
Types of customization
There are multiple methods for defining and using custom categories, detailed and compared in this section.
Custom categories (standard) API
The Custom categories (standard) API enables customers to define categories specific to their needs, provide sample data, train a custom machine learning model, and use it to classify new content according to the learned categories.
This is the standard workflow for customization with machine learning models. Depending on the training data quality, it can reach very good performance levels, but it can take up to several hours to train the model.
This implementation works on text content, not image content.
Custom categories (rapid) API
The Custom categories (rapid) API is designed to be quicker and more flexible than the standard method. It's meant to be used for identifying, analyzing, containing, eradicating, and recovering from cyber incidents that involve inappropriate or harmful content on online platforms.
An incident may involve a set of emerging content patterns (text, image, or other modalities) that violate Microsoft community guidelines or the customers' own policies and expectations. These incidents need to be mitigated quickly and accurately to avoid potential live site issues or harm to users and communities.
This implementation works on both text content and image content.
Tip
Another to deal with emerging content incidents is to useBlocklists, but that only allows exact text matching and no image matching. The Custom categories (rapid) API offers the following advanced capabilities:
semantic text matching using embedding search with a lightweight classifier
image matching with a lightweight object-tracking model and embedding search.
How it works
Custom categories (standard) API
Custom categories (rapid) API
The Azure AI Content Safety custom categories feature uses a multi-step process for creating, training, and using custom content classification models. Here's the workflow:
Step 1: Definition and setup
When you define a custom category, you need to teach the AI what type of content you want to identify. This involves providing a clearcategory nameand a detaileddefinitionthat encapsulates the content's characteristics.
Then, you collect a balanced dataset withpositiveand (optionally)negativeexamples to help the AI to learn the nuances of your category. This data should be representative of the variety of content that the model will encounter in a real-world scenario.
Step 2: Model training
After you prepare your dataset and define categories, the Azure AI Content Safety service trains a new machine learning model. This model uses your definitions and uploaded dataset to perform data augmentation using a large language model. As a result, the training dataset is made larger and of higher quality. During training, the AI model analyzes the data and learns to differentiate between content that aligns with the specified category and content that does not.
Step 3: Model evaluation
After training, you need to evaluate the model to ensure it meets your accuracy requirements. Test the model with new content that it hasn't received before. The evaluation phase helps you identify any potential adjustments you need to make deploying the model into a production environment.
Step 4: Model usage
You use theanalyzeCustomCategoryAPI to analyze text content and determine whether it matches the custom category you've defined. The service will return a Boolean indicating whether the content aligns with the specified category
To use the custom categories (rapid) API, you first create anincidentobject with a text description. Then, you upload any number of image or text samples to the incident. The LLM on the backend will then use these to evaluate future input content. No training step is needed.
You can include your defined incident in a regular text analysis or image analysis request. The service will indicate whether the submitted content is an instance of your incident. The service can still do other content moderation tasks in the same API call.
Limitations
Language availability
The Custom categories APIs support all languages that are supported by Content Safety text moderation. SeeLanguage support.
Input limitations
Custom categories (standard) API
Custom categories (rapid) API
See the following table for the input limitations of the custom categories (standard) API:
See the following table for the input limitations of the custom categories (rapid) API:
Region availability
To use these APIs, you must create your Azure AI Content Safety resource in one of the supported regions. SeeRegion availability.
Next step
Follow a how-to guide to use the Azure AI Content Safety APIs to create custom categories.
Use custom category (standard) API
Use the custom categories (rapid) API
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources