Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Introduction to Databricks notebooks
Article
2025-04-22
9 contributors
In this article
Notebooks are a common tool in data science and machine learning for developing code and presenting results. In Azure Databricks, notebooks are the primary tool for creating data science and machine learning workflows and collaborating with colleagues. Databricks notebooks provide real-time coauthoring in multiple languages, automatic versioning, and built-in data visualizations.
With Azure Databricks notebooks, you can:
Develop code using Python, SQL, Scala, and R.
Customize your environment with the libraries of your choice.
Create regularly scheduled jobs to automatically run tasks, including multi-notebook workflows.
Browse and access tables and volumes.
Perform exploratory data analysis (EDA).
Export results and notebooksin.htmlor.ipynbformat.
.html
.ipynb
Use a Git-based repository to store your notebooks with associated files and dependencies.
Build and share dashboards.
Develop and debug ETL pipelines with a notebook in DLT.
(Experimental)Use advanced editing capabilities.
Notebooks are also useful forexploratory data analysis (EDA).
How to import and run example notebooks
The Azure Databricks documentation includes many example notebooks that are intended to illustrate how to use Databricks capabilities. To import one of these notebooks into a Databricks workspace:
ClickCopy link for importat the upper right of the notebook preview that appears on the page.MLflow autologging quickstart Python notebookGet notebook
ClickCopy link for importat the upper right of the notebook preview that appears on the page.
Get notebook
In the workspace browser,navigate to the location where you want to import the notebook.
In the workspace browser,navigate to the location where you want to import the notebook.
Right-click the folder and selectImportfrom the menu.
Right-click the folder and selectImportfrom the menu.
Click theURLradio button and paste the link you just copied in the field.
Click theURLradio button and paste the link you just copied in the field.

ClickImport. The notebook is imported and opens automatically in the workspace. Changes you make to the notebook are saved automatically. For information about editing notebooks in the workspace, seeDevelop code in Databricks notebooks.
ClickImport. The notebook is imported and opens automatically in the workspace. Changes you make to the notebook are saved automatically. For information about editing notebooks in the workspace, seeDevelop code in Databricks notebooks.
To run the notebook, clickat the top of the notebook. For more information about running notebooks and individual notebook cells, seeRun Databricks notebooks.
To run the notebook, clickat the top of the notebook. For more information about running notebooks and individual notebook cells, seeRun Databricks notebooks.
To create a new, blank notebook in your workspace, seeCreate a notebook.
Notebook orientation
Learn about the notebook interface and controls.
Start using Databricks notebooks
Basic editing: learn the basics for how to effectively use and edit notebooks.
Manage notebooks: create, rename, delete, get the notebook path, configure editor settings.
Develop and edit code in notebooks.
Get AI-assisted coding help.
Explore and visualize data with EDA techniques.
Use the interactive debugger.
Work with cell outputs: download results and visualizations, control display of results in the notebook.
Run notebooks and schedule regular jobs.
Collaborate using notebooks: share a notebook, use comments in notebooks.
Import and export notebooks.
Test notebooks.
Customize the libraries for your notebook.
Advanced material
Develop and debug ETL pipelines with a notebook in DLT.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources