Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
High-performance computing (HPC) on Azure
Article
2024-12-12
37 contributors
In this article
Introduction to HPC
High-performance computing (HPC), also called "big compute", uses a large number of CPU or GPU-based computers to solve complex mathematical tasks.
Many industries use HPC to solve some of their most difficult problems.  These include workloads such as:
Genomics
Oil and gas simulations
Finance
Semiconductor design
Engineering
Weather modeling
How is HPC different on the cloud?
One of the primary differences between an on-premises HPC system and one in the cloud is the ability for resources to dynamically be added and removed as they're needed.  Dynamic scaling removes compute capacity as a bottleneck and instead allow customers to right size their infrastructure for the requirements of their jobs.
The following articles provide more detail about this dynamic scaling capability.
Big Compute Architecture Style
Autoscaling best practices
Implementation checklist
As you're looking to implement your own HPC solution on Azure, ensure you're reviewed the following topics:
Choose the appropriatearchitecturebased on your requirements
Know whichcomputeoptions is right for your workload
Identify the rightstoragesolution that meets your needs
Decide how you're going tomanageall your resources
Optimize yourapplicationfor the cloud
Secureyour Infrastructure
Infrastructure
There are many infrastructure components that are necessary to build an HPC system. Compute, storage, and networking provide the underlying components, no matter how you choose to manage your HPC workloads.
Compute
Azure offers a range of sizes that are optimized for both CPU & GPU intensive workloads.
Linux VMs
Windows VMs
N-series VMs feature NVIDIA GPUs designed for compute-intensive or graphics-intensive applications including artificial intelligence (AI) learning and visualization.
Linux VMs
Windows VMs
Storage
Large-scale Batch and HPC workloads have demands for data storage and access that exceed the capabilities of traditional cloud file systems. There are many solutions that manage both the speed and capacity needs of HPC applications on Azure:
Azure NetApp Files
Storage Optimized Virtual Machines
Blob, table, and queue storage
Azure SMB File storage
Azure Managed Lustre
For more information comparing Lustre, GlusterFS, and BeeGFS on Azure, review theParallel Files Systems on Azuree-book and theLustre on Azureblog.
Networking
H16r, H16mr, A8, and A9 VMs can connect to a high throughput back-end RDMA network. This network can improve the performance of tightly coupled parallel applications running under Microsoft Message Passing Interface better known as MPI or Intel MPI.
RDMA Capable Instances
Virtual Network
ExpressRoute
Management
Do-it-yourself
Building an HPC system from scratch on Azure offers a significant amount of flexibility, but it is often very maintenance intensive.
Set up your own cluster environment in Azure virtual machines orVirtual Machine Scale Sets.
Use Azure Resource Manager templates to deploy leadingworkload managers, infrastructure, andapplications.
Choose HPC and GPUVM sizesthat include specialized hardware and network connections for MPI or GPU workloads.
Addhigh-performance storagefor I/O-intensive workloads.
Hybrid and cloud Bursting
If you have an existing on-premises HPC system that you'd like to connect to Azure, there are several resources to help get you started.
First, review theOptions for connecting an on-premises network to Azurearticle in the documentation.  From there, you can find additional information on these connectivity options:
Connect an on-premises network to Azure using a VPN gatewayThis reference architecture shows how to extend an on-premises network to Azure, using a site-to-site virtual private network (VPN).
Connect an on-premises network to Azure using a VPN gateway
This reference architecture shows how to extend an on-premises network to Azure, using a site-to-site virtual private network (VPN).
Connect an on-premises network to Azure using ExpressRoute with VPN failoverImplement a highly available and secure site-to-site network architecture that spans an Azure virtual network and an on-premises network connected using ExpressRoute with VPN gateway failover.
Connect an on-premises network to Azure using ExpressRoute with VPN failover
Implement a highly available and secure site-to-site network architecture that spans an Azure virtual network and an on-premises network connected using ExpressRoute with VPN gateway failover.
Once network connectivity is securely established, you can start using cloud compute resources on-demand with the bursting capabilities of your existingworkload manager.
Marketplace solutions
There are many workload managers offered in theAzure Marketplace.
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server for HPC
TIBCO DataSynapse GridServer
Azure Data Science VM for Windows and Linux
D3View
UberCloud
Azure Batch
Azure Batchis a platform service for running large-scale parallel and HPC applications efficiently in the cloud. Azure Batch schedules compute-intensive work to run on a managed pool of virtual machines, and can automatically scale compute resources to meet the needs of your jobs.
SaaS providers or developers can use the Batch SDKs and tools to integrate HPC applications or container workloads with Azure, stage data to Azure, and build job execution pipelines.
In Azure Batch all the services are running on the Cloud, the image below shows how the architecture looks with Azure Batch, having the scalability and job schedule configurations running in the Cloud while the results and reports can be sent to your on-premises environment.

Azure CycleCloud
Azure CycleCloudProvides the simplest way to manage HPC workloads using any scheduler (like Slurm, Grid Engine, HPC Pack, HTCondor, LSF, PBS Pro, or Symphony), on Azure
CycleCloud allows you to:
Deploy full clusters and other resources, including scheduler, compute VMs, storage, networking, and cache
Orchestrate job, data, and cloud workflows
Give admins full control over which users can run jobs, as well as where and at what cost
Customize and optimize clusters through advanced policy and governance features, including cost controls, Active Directory integration, monitoring, and reporting
Use your current job scheduler and applications without modification
Take advantage of built-in autoscaling and battle-tested reference architectures for a wide range of HPC workloads and industries
In this Hybrid example diagram, we can see clearly how these services are distributed between the cloud and the on-premises environment. Having the opportunity to run jobs in both workloads.
The cloud native model example diagram below, shows how the workload in the cloud will handle everything while still conserving the connection to the on-premises environment.

Comparison chart
Workload managers
The following are examples of cluster and workload managers that can run in Azure infrastructure. Create stand-alone clusters in Azure VMs or burst to Azure VMs from an on-premises cluster.
Alces Flight Compute
TIBCO DataSynapse GridServer
Bright Cluster Manager
IBM Spectrum Symphony and Symphony LSF
Altair PBS Works
Rescale
Altair Grid Engine
Microsoft HPC PackHPC Pack for WindowsHPC Pack for Linux
HPC Pack for Windows
HPC Pack for Linux
Containers can also be used to manage some HPC workloads.  Services like the Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) makes it simple to deploy a managed Kubernetes cluster in Azure.
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Container Registry
Cost management
Managing your HPC cost on Azure can be done through a few different ways.  Ensure you've reviewed theAzure purchasing optionsto find the method that works best for your organization.
Security
For an overview of security best practices on Azure, review theAzure Security Documentation.
In addition to the network configurations available in theCloud Burstingsection, you can implement a hub/spoke configuration to isolate your compute resources:
Implement a hub-spoke network topology in AzureThe hub is a virtual network (VNet) in Azure that acts as a central point of connectivity to your on-premises network. The spokes are VNets that peer with the hub, and can be used to isolate workloads.
Implement a hub-spoke network topology in Azure
The hub is a virtual network (VNet) in Azure that acts as a central point of connectivity to your on-premises network. The spokes are VNets that peer with the hub, and can be used to isolate workloads.
Implement a hub-spoke network topology with shared services in AzureThis reference architecture builds on the hub-spoke reference architecture to include shared services in the hub that can be consumed by all spokes.
Implement a hub-spoke network topology with shared services in Azure
This reference architecture builds on the hub-spoke reference architecture to include shared services in the hub that can be consumed by all spokes.
HPC applications
Run custom or commercial HPC applications in Azure. Several examples in this section are benchmarked to scale efficiently with additional VMs or compute cores. Visit theAzure Marketplacefor ready-to-deploy solutions.
Note
Check with the vendor of any commercial application for licensing or other restrictions for running in the cloud. Not all vendors offer pay-as-you-go licensing. You might need a licensing server in the cloud for your solution, or connect to an on-premises license server.
Engineering applications
Altair RADIOSS
ANSYS CFD
MATLAB Distributed Computing Server
StarCCM+
Graphics and rendering
Autodesk Maya, 3ds Max, and Arnoldon Azure Batch
AI and deep learning
Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit
MPI providers
Microsoft MPI
Remote visualization
Run GPU-powered virtual machines in Azure in the same region as the HPC output for the lowest latency, access, and to visualize remotely through Azure Virtual Desktop.
GPU-optimized virtual machine sizes
Configure GPU acceleration for Azure Virtual Desktop
Windows desktops using Azure Virtual Desktop on AzureBuild a VDI environment for Windows desktops using Azure Virtual Desktop on Azure.
Windows desktops using Azure Virtual Desktop on Azure
Build a VDI environment for Windows desktops using Azure Virtual Desktop on Azure.
Performance benchmarks
Compute benchmarks
Customer stories
There are many customers who have seen great success by using Azure for their HPC workloads.  You can find a few of these customer case studies below:
AXA Global P&C
Axioma
d3View
EFS
Hymans Robertson
MetLife
Microsoft Research
Milliman
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International
NeuroInitiative
Schlumberger
Towers Watson
Other important information
Ensure yourvCPU quotahas been increased before attempting to run large-scale workloads.
Next steps
For the latest announcements, see the following resources:
Microsoft HPC and Batch team blog
Visit theAzure blog.
Microsoft Batch Examples
These tutorials will provide you with details on running applications on Microsoft Batch:
Get started developing with Batch
Use Azure Batch code samples
Use low-priority VMs with Batch
Use compute-intensive VMs in Batch pools
Related resources
Big compute architecture style
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources