Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure DNS overview
Article
2024-08-12
19 contributors
In this article
The Domain Name System (DNS) is responsible for translating (resolving) a service name to an IP address. Azure DNS provides DNS hosting, resolution, and load balancing for your applications using the Microsoft Azure infrastructure.
Azure DNS supports both internet-facing DNS domains and private DNS zones, and provides the following services:
Azure Public DNSis a hosting service for DNS domains. By hosting your domains in Azure, you can manage your DNS records by using the same credentials, APIs, tools, and billing as your other Azure services.
Azure Public DNSis a hosting service for DNS domains. By hosting your domains in Azure, you can manage your DNS records by using the same credentials, APIs, tools, and billing as your other Azure services.
Azure Private DNSis a DNS service for your virtual networks. Azure Private DNS manages and resolves domain names in the virtual network without the need to configure a custom DNS solution.
Azure Private DNSis a DNS service for your virtual networks. Azure Private DNS manages and resolves domain names in the virtual network without the need to configure a custom DNS solution.
Azure DNS Private Resolveris a service that enables you to query Azure DNS private zones from an on-premises environment and vice versa without deploying VM based DNS servers.
Azure DNS Private Resolveris a service that enables you to query Azure DNS private zones from an on-premises environment and vice versa without deploying VM based DNS servers.
Azure Traffic Manageris a DNS-based traffic load balancer. This service allows you to distribute traffic to your public facing applications across the global Azure regions.
Azure Traffic Manageris a DNS-based traffic load balancer. This service allows you to distribute traffic to your public facing applications across the global Azure regions.
Azure DNS enables multiple scenarios, including:
Host and resolve public domains
Manage DNS resolution in your virtual networks
Enable autoregistration for VMs
Enable name resolution between Azure and your on-premises resources
Secure hybrid networking
Monitor DNS metrics and alerts
Integrate with your other Azure services
Perform Private Link and DNS integration at scale
Protect yourpublicandprivateDNS zones and records
Enable automaticfault toleranceandfailoverfor DNS resolution
Load-balance your applications
Increase applicationavailabilityandperformance
Monitor your application traffic patterns
Next steps
To learn about Public DNS zones and records, seeDNS zones and records overview.
To learn about Private DNS zones, seeWhat is an Azure Private DNS zone.
To learn about private resolver endpoints and rulesets, seeAzure DNS Private Resolver endpoints and rulesets.
For frequently asked questions about Azure DNS, seeAzure DNS FAQ.
For frequently asked questions about Azure Private DNS, seeAzure Private DNS FAQ.
For frequently asked questions about Traffic Manager, seeTraffic Manager routing methods
Also seeLearn module: Introduction to Azure DNS.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources