Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Serverless SQL pool in Azure Synapse Analytics
Article
2024-09-12
13 contributors
In this article
Every Azure Synapse Analytics workspace comes with serverless SQL pool endpoints that you can use to query data in theAzure Data Lake(Parquet,Delta Lake,delimited textformats),Azure Cosmos DB, or Dataverse.
Serverless SQL pool is a query service over the data in your data lake. It enables you to access your data through the following functionalities:
A familiarT-SQL syntaxto query data in place without the need to copy or load data into a specialized store. To learn more, see theT-SQL supportsection.
Integrated connectivity via the T-SQL interface that offers a wide range of business intelligence and ad-hoc querying tools, including the most popular drivers. To learn more, see theClient toolssection. You can learn more from theIntroduction into Synapse Serverless SQL Pools video.
Serverless SQL pool is a distributed data processing system, built for large-scale data and computational functions. Serverless SQL pool enables you to analyze your Big Data in seconds to minutes, depending on the workload. Thanks to built-in query execution fault-tolerance, the system provides high reliability and success rates even for long-running queries involving large data sets.
Serverless SQL pool is serverless, hence there's no infrastructure to setup or clusters to maintain. A default endpoint for this service is provided within every Azure Synapse workspace, so you can start querying data as soon as the workspace is created.
There's no charge for resources reserved. You are only being charged for the data processed by queries you run, hence this model is a true pay-per-use model.
If you use Apache Spark for Azure Synapse in your data pipeline, for data preparation, cleansing or enrichment, you canquery external Spark tablesyou've created in the process, directly from serverless SQL pool. UsePrivate Linkto bring your serverless SQL pool endpoint into yourmanaged workspace virtual network.
Serverless SQL pool benefits
If you need to explore data in the data lake, gain insights from it or optimize your existing data transformation pipeline, you can benefit from using serverless SQL pool. It's suitable for the following scenarios:
Basic discovery and exploration - Quickly reason about the data in various formats (Parquet, CSV, JSON) in your data lake, so you can plan how to extract insights from it.
Logical data warehouse – Provide a relational abstraction on top of raw or disparate data without relocating and transforming data, allowing always up-to-date view of your data. Learn more aboutcreating logical data warehouse.
Data transformation - Simple, scalable, and performant way to transform data in the lake using T-SQL, so it can be fed to BI and other tools, or loaded into a relational data store (Synapse SQL databases, Azure SQL Database, etc.).
Different professional roles can benefit from serverless SQL pool:
Data Engineers can explore the lake, transform and prepare data using this service, and simplify their data transformation pipelines. For more information, check thistutorial.
Data Scientists can quickly reason about the contents and structure of the data in the lake, thanks to features such as OPENROWSET and automatic schema inference.
Data Analysts canexplore data and Spark external tablescreated by Data Scientists or Data Engineers using familiar T-SQL language or their favorite tools, which can connect to serverless SQL pool.
BI Professionals can quicklycreate Power BI reports on top of data in the lakeand Spark tables.
How to start using serverless SQL pool
Serverless SQL pool endpoint is provided within every Azure Synapse workspace. You can create a workspace and start querying data instantly using tools you're familiar with.
Make sure that you're applyingthe best practicesto get the best performance.
Client tools
Serverless SQL pool enables existing SQL ad-hoc querying and business intelligence tools to tap into the data lake. As it provides familiar T-SQL syntax, any tool capable to establish TDS connection to SQL offerings canconnect to and query Synapse SQL. You can connect with Azure Data Studio and run ad-hoc queries or connect with Power BI to gain insights in a matter of minutes.
T-SQL support
Serverless SQL pool offers T-SQL querying surface area, which is slightly enhanced/extended in some aspects to accommodate for experiences around querying semi-structured and unstructured data. Furthermore, some aspects of the T-SQL language aren't supported due to the design of serverless SQL pool, as an example, DML functionality is currently not supported.
Workload can be organized using familiar concepts:
Databases - serverless SQL pool endpoint can have multiple databases.
Schemas - Within a database, there can be one or many object ownership groups called schemas.
Views, stored procedures, inline table value functions
External resources – data sources, file formats, and tables
Security can be enforced using:
Logins and users
Credentials to control access to storage accounts
Grant, deny, and revoke permissions per object level
Microsoft Entra integration
Supported T-SQL:
FullSELECTsurface area is supported, including a majority of SQL functions
CETAS - CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE AS SELECT
DDL statements related to views and security only
Serverless SQL pool has no local storage, only metadata objects are stored in databases. Therefore, T-SQL related to the following concepts isn't supported:
Tables
Triggers
Materialized views
DDL statements other than ones related to views and security
DML statements
Note
Serverless SQL pool queries have a timeout. For more information on query timeout that may affect your workload, seeserverless SQL pool system constraints. Currently you can't change the timeout.
Extensions
In order to enable smooth experience for in place querying of data residing in files in data lake, serverless SQL pool extends the existingOPENROWSETfunction by adding following capabilities:
Query multiple files or folders
Query PARQUET file format
Query DELTA format
Various delimited text formats (with custom field terminator, row terminator, escape char)
Azure Cosmos DB analytical store
Read a chosen subset of columns
Schema inference
filename function
filepath function
Work with complex types and nested or repeated data structures
Security
Serverless SQL pool offers mechanisms to secure access to your data.

Microsoft Entra integration and multifactor authentication
Serverless SQL pool enables you to centrally manage identities of database user and other Microsoft services withMicrosoft Entra integration. This capability simplifies permission management and enhances security. Microsoft Entra ID supportsmultifactor authentication(MFA) to increase data and application security while supporting a single sign-on process.
Serverless SQL pool authentication refers to how users prove their identity when connecting to the endpoint. Two types of authentication are supported:
SQL AuthenticationThis authentication method uses a username and password.
SQL Authentication
This authentication method uses a username and password.
Microsoft Entra authentication:This authentication method uses identities managed by Microsoft Entra ID. For Microsoft Entra users, multifactor authentication can be enabled. Use Active Directory authentication (integrated security)whenever possible.
Microsoft Entra authentication:
This authentication method uses identities managed by Microsoft Entra ID. For Microsoft Entra users, multifactor authentication can be enabled. Use Active Directory authentication (integrated security)whenever possible.
Authorization refers to what a user can do within a serverless SQL pool database, and is controlled by your user account's database role memberships and object-level permissions.
If SQL Authentication is used, the SQL user exists only in serverless SQL pool and permissions are scoped to the objects in serverless SQL pool. Access to securable objects in other services (such as Azure Storage) can't be granted to SQL user directly since it only exists in scope of serverless SQL pool. The SQL user needs to use one of thesupported authorization typesto access the files.
If Microsoft Entra authentication is used, a user can sign in to serverless SQL pool and other services, like Azure Storage, and can grant permissions to the Microsoft Entra user.
Access to storage accounts
A user that is logged into the serverless SQL pool service must be authorized to access and query the files in Azure Storage. Serverless SQL pool supports the following authorization types:
Shared access signature (SAS)provides delegated access to resources in storage account. With a SAS, you can grant clients access to resources in storage account, without sharing account keys. A SAS gives you granular control over the type of access you grant to clients who have the SAS: validity interval, granted permissions, acceptable IP address range, acceptable protocol (https/http).
Shared access signature (SAS)provides delegated access to resources in storage account. With a SAS, you can grant clients access to resources in storage account, without sharing account keys. A SAS gives you granular control over the type of access you grant to clients who have the SAS: validity interval, granted permissions, acceptable IP address range, acceptable protocol (https/http).
User Identity(also known as "pass-through") is an authorization type where the identity of the Microsoft Entra user that logged into serverless SQL pool is used to authorize  access to the data. Before accessing the data, Azure Storage administrator must grant permissions to Microsoft Entra user for accessing the data. This authorization type uses the Microsoft Entra user that logged into serverless SQL pool, therefore it's not supported for SQL user types.
User Identity(also known as "pass-through") is an authorization type where the identity of the Microsoft Entra user that logged into serverless SQL pool is used to authorize  access to the data. Before accessing the data, Azure Storage administrator must grant permissions to Microsoft Entra user for accessing the data. This authorization type uses the Microsoft Entra user that logged into serverless SQL pool, therefore it's not supported for SQL user types.
Workspace Identityis an authorization type where the identity of the Synapse workspace  is used to authorize  access to the data. Before accessing the data, Azure Storage administrator must grant permissions to workspace identity for accessing the data.
Workspace Identityis an authorization type where the identity of the Synapse workspace  is used to authorize  access to the data. Before accessing the data, Azure Storage administrator must grant permissions to workspace identity for accessing the data.
Access to Azure Cosmos DB
You need to create server-level or database-scoped credential with the Azure Cosmos DB account read-only key toaccess the Azure Cosmos DB analytical store.
Next steps
Additional information on endpoint connection and querying files can be found in the following articles:
Connect to your endpoint
Query your files
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources