Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Dpdsv6 sizes series
Article
2025-01-30
6 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows Client VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets
The Dpdsv6-series virtual machines are powered by Azure’s first-generation Cobalt 100 processor, delivering outstanding performance for general-purpose workloads. The Azure Cobalt 100 processor operates at 3.4 GHz and provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer 4 GiB of memory per vCPU and a wide range of vCPU sizes. These VMs meet the requirements of most scale-out enterprise workloads such as web and application servers, small to medium databases, caches, and more. Dpdsv6-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. For more information, see pricing for disks. Dpdsv6-series virtual machines offer up to 96 vCPU, up to 384 GiB of RAM, and up to 5,280 GiB of fast local NVMe temporary storage.
Host specifications
Feature Support
Premium Storage: Supported
Premium Storage caching: Supported
Memory Preserving Updates: Supported
VM Generation Support: Generation 2
Accelerated Networking: Supported
Ephemeral OS Disks: Not Supported
Nested Virtualization: Not supported
Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs: Not Supported
Azure Disk Encryption for Windows VMs: Not Supported
Sizes in series
Basics
Local Storage
Remote Storage
Network
Accelerators
vCPUs (Qty.) and Memory for each size
Note
The Dpdsv6 VM series will only work on OS images that support NVMe (i.e.  NVMe drivers required for the local storage). If your current OS image doesn't have NVMe support, you’ll see an error message. NVMe support is available on the most popular OS images, and we're continuously improving OS image compatibility.
What are vCPUs (Qty.)
Check vCPU quotas
Local (temp) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly (R-O) or ReadWrite (R-W). For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Remote (uncached) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1These sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
1These sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Network interface info for each size
Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Note
Accelerated networking is required and turned on by default on all Dpdsv6 machines.
Expected network bandwidth is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines.
To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Accelerator (GPUs, FPGAs, etc.) info for each size
Note
No accelerators are present in this series.
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources