Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Architecture best practices for Azure Firewall
Article
2024-09-26
10 contributors
In this article
Azure Firewall is a cloud-native and intelligent network firewall security service that provides best-of-breed threat protection for your cloud workloads that run in Azure. It's a fully stateful, managed firewall service that has built-in high availability and unrestricted cloud scalability. Azure Firewall provides both east-west and north-south traffic inspection.
This article assumes that as an architect, you've reviewed thevirtual network security optionsand chosen Azure Firewall as the network security service for your workload. The guidance in this article provides architectural recommendations that are mapped to the principles of theAzure Well-Architected Framework pillars.
Important
How to use this guide
Each section has adesign checklistthat presents architectural areas of concern along with design strategies localized to the technology scope.
Also included arerecommendationson the technology capabilities that can help materialize those strategies. The recommendations don't represent an exhaustive list of all configurations available for Azure Firewall and its dependencies. Instead, they list the key recommendations mapped to the design perspectives. Use the recommendations to build your proof-of-concept or optimize your existing environments.
Foundational architecture that demonstrates the key recommendations:Hub-spoke network topology in Azure.
Technology scope
This review focuses on the interrelated decisions for the following Azure resources:
Azure Firewall
Azure Firewall Manager
Reliability
The purpose of the Reliability pillar is to provide continued
functionality bybuilding enough resilience and the ability
to recover fast from failures.
TheReliability design principlesprovide a high-level design strategy applied for individual components,
system flows, and the system as a whole.
Start your design strategy based on thedesign review checklist for Reliability. Determine
its relevance to your business requirements while keeping in mind the
policies and the type of architecture that you use. Extend the strategy to include more approaches
as needed.
Review the list of Azure Firewallknown issues.Azure Firewall products maintain an updated list ofknown issues. This list contains important information about by-design behavior, fixes under construction, platform limitations, and possible workarounds or mitigation strategies.
Review the list of Azure Firewallknown issues.Azure Firewall products maintain an updated list ofknown issues. This list contains important information about by-design behavior, fixes under construction, platform limitations, and possible workarounds or mitigation strategies.
Ensure that your Azure Firewall policy adheres to Azure Firewall limits and recommendations.The policy structure has limits, including the number of rules and rule collection groups, total policy size, source destinations, and target destinations. Be sure to compose your policy and stay below thedocumented thresholds.
Ensure that your Azure Firewall policy adheres to Azure Firewall limits and recommendations.The policy structure has limits, including the number of rules and rule collection groups, total policy size, source destinations, and target destinations. Be sure to compose your policy and stay below thedocumented thresholds.
Deploy Azure Firewall across multiple availability zonesfor a higher service-level agreement (SLA). Azure Firewall provides different SLAs depending on whether you deploy the service in a single availability zone ormultiple zones. For more information, seeSLAs for online services.
Deploy Azure Firewall across multiple availability zonesfor a higher service-level agreement (SLA). Azure Firewall provides different SLAs depending on whether you deploy the service in a single availability zone ormultiple zones. For more information, seeSLAs for online services.
Deploy an Azure Firewall instance in each regionin multi-region environments. For traditional hub-and-spoke architectures, seeMulti-region considerations. For secured Azure Virtual WAN hubs, configurerouting intent and policiesto secure inter-hub and branch-to-branch communications. For failure-resistant and fault-tolerant workloads, consider instances of Azure Firewall and Azure Virtual Network as regional resources.
Deploy an Azure Firewall instance in each regionin multi-region environments. For traditional hub-and-spoke architectures, seeMulti-region considerations. For secured Azure Virtual WAN hubs, configurerouting intent and policiesto secure inter-hub and branch-to-branch communications. For failure-resistant and fault-tolerant workloads, consider instances of Azure Firewall and Azure Virtual Network as regional resources.
Monitor Azure Firewall metrics and the resource health state.Azure Firewall integrates withAzure Resource Health. Use the Resource Health check to view the health status of Azure Firewall and address service problems that might affect your Azure Firewall resource.
Monitor Azure Firewall metrics and the resource health state.Azure Firewall integrates withAzure Resource Health. Use the Resource Health check to view the health status of Azure Firewall and address service problems that might affect your Azure Firewall resource.
Deploy Azure Firewall in hub virtual networks or as part of Virtual WAN hubs.
Deploy Azure Firewall in hub virtual networks or as part of Virtual WAN hubs.
Note
The availability of network services differs between the traditional hub-and-spoke model and the Virtual WAN-managed secured hubs model. For example, in a Virtual WAN hub, the Azure Firewall public IP can't come from a public IP prefix and can't have Azure DDoS Protection enabled. When you choose your model, consider your requirements across all five pillars of the Well-Architected Framework.
Security
The purpose of the Security pillar is to provideconfidentiality, integrity, and availabilityguarantees to the workload.
TheSecurity design principlesprovide a high-level design strategy for achieving those goals by applying approaches to the technical design of Azure Firewall.
Start your design strategy based on thedesign review checklist for Security. Identify
vulnerabilities and controls to improve the security posture. Extend the
strategy to include more approaches as needed.
Send all internet traffic from your workload through a firewall or a network virtual appliance (NVA)to detect and block threats. Configure user-defined routes (UDRs) to force traffic through Azure Firewall. For web traffic, consider using Azure Firewall as an explicit proxy.Configure supported partner software as a service (SaaS) security providers within Firewall Manager if you want to use these providers to protect outbound connections.Restrict the usage ofpublic IP addressesthat are directly tied to virtual machines so that traffic can't bypass the firewall. The Azure Cloud Adoption Framework model assigns a specific Azure policy to theCORP management group.Follow the Zero Trust configuration guide for Azure Firewall and Application Gateway if your security needs require that you implement a Zero Trust approach for web applications, such as adding inspection and encryption. Follow thisguideto integrate Azure Firewall and Application Gateway for both traditional hub-and-spoke and Virtual WAN scenarios.For more information, seeApply firewalls at the edge.
Send all internet traffic from your workload through a firewall or a network virtual appliance (NVA)to detect and block threats. Configure user-defined routes (UDRs) to force traffic through Azure Firewall. For web traffic, consider using Azure Firewall as an explicit proxy.
Configure supported partner software as a service (SaaS) security providers within Firewall Manager if you want to use these providers to protect outbound connections.
Restrict the usage ofpublic IP addressesthat are directly tied to virtual machines so that traffic can't bypass the firewall. The Azure Cloud Adoption Framework model assigns a specific Azure policy to theCORP management group.
Follow the Zero Trust configuration guide for Azure Firewall and Application Gateway if your security needs require that you implement a Zero Trust approach for web applications, such as adding inspection and encryption. Follow thisguideto integrate Azure Firewall and Application Gateway for both traditional hub-and-spoke and Virtual WAN scenarios.
For more information, seeApply firewalls at the edge.
Establish network perimetersas part of your workloadsegmentation strategyto control the blast radius, obfuscate workload resources, and block unexpected, prohibited, and unsafe access. Create rules for Azure Firewall policies based on theleast-privilege accesscriteria.Set the public IP address toNoneto deploy a fully private data plane when you configure Azure Firewall in forced tunneling mode. This approach doesn't apply to Virtual WAN.Use fully qualified domain names (FQDN) and service tags when you define network rules to simplify management.
Establish network perimetersas part of your workloadsegmentation strategyto control the blast radius, obfuscate workload resources, and block unexpected, prohibited, and unsafe access. Create rules for Azure Firewall policies based on theleast-privilege accesscriteria.
Set the public IP address toNoneto deploy a fully private data plane when you configure Azure Firewall in forced tunneling mode. This approach doesn't apply to Virtual WAN.
Use fully qualified domain names (FQDN) and service tags when you define network rules to simplify management.
Use detection mechanismsto diligently monitor for threats and signs of abuse. Take advantage of platform-provided detection mechanisms and measures. Enable the intrusion detection and prevention system (IDPS). Associate an Azure DDoS Protection plan with your hub virtual network.For more information, seeDetect abuse.
Use detection mechanismsto diligently monitor for threats and signs of abuse. Take advantage of platform-provided detection mechanisms and measures. Enable the intrusion detection and prevention system (IDPS). Associate an Azure DDoS Protection plan with your hub virtual network.
For more information, seeDetect abuse.
Cost Optimization
Cost Optimization focuses ondetecting spend patterns, prioritizing investments in critical areas, and optimizing in othersto meet the organization's budget while meeting business requirements.
TheCost Optimization design principlesprovide a high-level design strategy for achieving those goals and making tradeoffs as necessary in the technical design related to Azure Firewall and its environment.
Start your design strategy based on thedesign review checklist for Cost Optimizationfor investments. Fine-tune the design so that the workload is aligned with the budget that's allocated for the workload. Your design should use the right Azure capabilities, monitor investments, and find opportunities to optimize over time.
Select an Azure Firewall SKU to deploy.Choose from three Azure Firewall SKUs:Basic,Standard, andPremium. Use Azure Firewall Premium to secure highly sensitive applications, such as payment processing. Use Azure Firewall Standard if your workload needs a Layer 3 to Layer 7 firewall and needs autoscaling to handle peak traffic periods of up to 30 Gbps. Use Azure Firewall Basic if you use SMB and require up to 250 Mbps of throughput. You candowngrade or upgrade between Standard and Premium SKUs. For more information, seeChoose the right Azure Firewall SKU.
Select an Azure Firewall SKU to deploy.Choose from three Azure Firewall SKUs:Basic,Standard, andPremium. Use Azure Firewall Premium to secure highly sensitive applications, such as payment processing. Use Azure Firewall Standard if your workload needs a Layer 3 to Layer 7 firewall and needs autoscaling to handle peak traffic periods of up to 30 Gbps. Use Azure Firewall Basic if you use SMB and require up to 250 Mbps of throughput. You candowngrade or upgrade between Standard and Premium SKUs. For more information, seeChoose the right Azure Firewall SKU.
Remove unused firewall deployments and optimize underused deployments.Stop Azure Firewall deployments that don't need to continuously run. Identify and delete unused Azure Firewall deployments. To reduce operational costs, monitor and optimize firewall instances usage, Azure Firewall Manager policies configuration, and the number of public IP addresses and policies that you use.
Remove unused firewall deployments and optimize underused deployments.Stop Azure Firewall deployments that don't need to continuously run. Identify and delete unused Azure Firewall deployments. To reduce operational costs, monitor and optimize firewall instances usage, Azure Firewall Manager policies configuration, and the number of public IP addresses and policies that you use.
Share the same instance of Azure Firewall.You can use a central instance of Azure Firewall in the hub virtual network or Virtual WAN secure hub and share the same Azure Firewall instance across spoke virtual networks that connect to the same hub from the same region. Ensure that you don't have unexpected cross-region traffic in a hub-and-spoke topology.
Share the same instance of Azure Firewall.You can use a central instance of Azure Firewall in the hub virtual network or Virtual WAN secure hub and share the same Azure Firewall instance across spoke virtual networks that connect to the same hub from the same region. Ensure that you don't have unexpected cross-region traffic in a hub-and-spoke topology.
Optimize traffic through the firewall.Regularly review traffic that Azure Firewall processes. Find opportunities to reduce the amount of traffic that traverses the firewall.
Optimize traffic through the firewall.Regularly review traffic that Azure Firewall processes. Find opportunities to reduce the amount of traffic that traverses the firewall.
Decrease the amount of log data that you store.Azure Firewall can use Azure Event Hubs to comprehensively log the traffic's metadata and send it to Log Analytics workspaces, Azure Storage, or non-Microsoft solutions. All logging solutions incur costs to process data and provide storage. Large amounts of data can incur significant costs. Consider a cost-effective approach andalternative to Log Analytics, and estimate the cost. Consider whether you need to log traffic metadata for all logging categories.
Decrease the amount of log data that you store.Azure Firewall can use Azure Event Hubs to comprehensively log the traffic's metadata and send it to Log Analytics workspaces, Azure Storage, or non-Microsoft solutions. All logging solutions incur costs to process data and provide storage. Large amounts of data can incur significant costs. Consider a cost-effective approach andalternative to Log Analytics, and estimate the cost. Consider whether you need to log traffic metadata for all logging categories.
Operational Excellence
Operational Excellence primarily focuses on procedures fordevelopment practices, observability, and release management.
TheOperational Excellence design principlesprovide a high-level design strategy for achieving those goals for the operational requirements of the workload.
Start your design strategy based on thedesign review checklist for Operational Excellencefor defining processes for observability, testing, and deployment related to Azure Firewall.
UseFirewall Managerwith traditional hub-and-spoke topologies or Virtual WAN network topologiesto deploy and manage instances of Azure Firewall. Use native security services for traffic governance and protection to create hub-and-spoke and transitive architectures. For more information, seeNetwork topology and connectivity.Migrate Azure Firewallclassic rulesto Firewall Manager policies for existing deployments. Use Firewall Manager to centrally manage your firewalls and policies. For more information, seeMigrate to Azure Firewall Premium.
UseFirewall Managerwith traditional hub-and-spoke topologies or Virtual WAN network topologiesto deploy and manage instances of Azure Firewall. Use native security services for traffic governance and protection to create hub-and-spoke and transitive architectures. For more information, seeNetwork topology and connectivity.
Migrate Azure Firewallclassic rulesto Firewall Manager policies for existing deployments. Use Firewall Manager to centrally manage your firewalls and policies. For more information, seeMigrate to Azure Firewall Premium.
Maintain regular backups of Azure Policy artifacts.If you use an infrastructure-as-code approach to maintain Azure Firewall and all dependencies, you should have backup and versioning of Azure Firewall policies in place. If you don't, you can deploy acompanion mechanismthat's based on an external logic app to provide an effective automated solution.
Maintain regular backups of Azure Policy artifacts.If you use an infrastructure-as-code approach to maintain Azure Firewall and all dependencies, you should have backup and versioning of Azure Firewall policies in place. If you don't, you can deploy acompanion mechanismthat's based on an external logic app to provide an effective automated solution.
Monitor Azure Firewall logs and metrics.Take advantage of diagnostic logs for firewall monitoring and troubleshooting and activity logs for auditing operations.
Monitor Azure Firewall logs and metrics.Take advantage of diagnostic logs for firewall monitoring and troubleshooting and activity logs for auditing operations.
Analyze monitoring data to assess the overall health of the system.Use the built-in Azure Firewall monitoring workbook, familiarize yourself with Kusto Query Language (KQL) queries, and use the policy analytics dashboard to identify potential problems.
Analyze monitoring data to assess the overall health of the system.Use the built-in Azure Firewall monitoring workbook, familiarize yourself with Kusto Query Language (KQL) queries, and use the policy analytics dashboard to identify potential problems.
Define alerts for key eventsso that operators can quickly respond to them.
Define alerts for key eventsso that operators can quickly respond to them.
Take advantage of platform-provided detection mechanisms in Azure to detect abuse.Integrate Azure Firewall withMicrosoft Defender for CloudandMicrosoft Sentinelif possible. Integrate with Defender for Cloud so you can visualize the status of network infrastructure and network security in one place, including Azure network security across all virtual networks and virtual hubs in different regions in Azure. Integrate with Microsoft Sentinel to provide threat-detection and prevention capabilities.
Take advantage of platform-provided detection mechanisms in Azure to detect abuse.Integrate Azure Firewall withMicrosoft Defender for CloudandMicrosoft Sentinelif possible. Integrate with Defender for Cloud so you can visualize the status of network infrastructure and network security in one place, including Azure network security across all virtual networks and virtual hubs in different regions in Azure. Integrate with Microsoft Sentinel to provide threat-detection and prevention capabilities.
Performance Efficiency
Performance Efficiency is aboutmaintaining user experience even when there's an increase in loadby managing capacity. The strategy includes scaling resources, identifying and optimizing potential bottlenecks, and optimizing for peak performance.
ThePerformance Efficiency design principlesprovide a high-level design strategy for achieving those capacity goals against the expected usage.
Start your design strategy based on thedesign review checklist for Performance Efficiency. Define a baseline that's based on key performance indicators for Azure Firewall.
Optimize your Azure Firewall configurationin accordance with the Well-Architected Frameworkrecommendationsto optimize code and infrastructure and ensure peak operation. To maintain an efficient and secure network, regularly review and optimize firewall rules. This practice helps ensure that your firewall configurations remain effective and up to date with the latest security threats.Assess policy requirements, and find opportunities to summarize IP ranges and URL lists. Use web categories to allow or deny outbound access in bulk to streamline management and enhance security. Evaluate the performance impact of IDPS inAlert and denymode because this configuration can affect network latency and throughput. Configure public IP addresses to support your SNAT port requirements. Follow these practices to create a robust and scalable network security infrastructure.
Optimize your Azure Firewall configurationin accordance with the Well-Architected Frameworkrecommendationsto optimize code and infrastructure and ensure peak operation. To maintain an efficient and secure network, regularly review and optimize firewall rules. This practice helps ensure that your firewall configurations remain effective and up to date with the latest security threats.
Assess policy requirements, and find opportunities to summarize IP ranges and URL lists. Use web categories to allow or deny outbound access in bulk to streamline management and enhance security. Evaluate the performance impact of IDPS inAlert and denymode because this configuration can affect network latency and throughput. Configure public IP addresses to support your SNAT port requirements. Follow these practices to create a robust and scalable network security infrastructure.
Don't use Azure Firewall for intra-virtual network traffic control.Use Azure Firewall to control the following types of traffic:Traffic across virtual networksTraffic between virtual networks and on-premises networksOutbound traffic to the internetIncoming non-HTTP or non-HTTPS trafficFor intra-virtual network traffic control, usenetwork security groups.
Don't use Azure Firewall for intra-virtual network traffic control.Use Azure Firewall to control the following types of traffic:
Traffic across virtual networks
Traffic between virtual networks and on-premises networks
Outbound traffic to the internet
Incoming non-HTTP or non-HTTPS traffic
For intra-virtual network traffic control, usenetwork security groups.
Warm up Azure Firewall properly before performance tests.Create initial traffic that isn't part of your load tests 20 minutes before your tests. Use diagnostics settings to capture scale-up and scale-down events. You can use theAzure Load Testingservice to generate the initial traffic so you can scale up Azure Firewall to the maximum number of instances.
Warm up Azure Firewall properly before performance tests.Create initial traffic that isn't part of your load tests 20 minutes before your tests. Use diagnostics settings to capture scale-up and scale-down events. You can use theAzure Load Testingservice to generate the initial traffic so you can scale up Azure Firewall to the maximum number of instances.
Configure an Azure Firewall subnet with a /26 address space.You need a dedicated subnet for Azure Firewall. Azure Firewall provisions more capacity as it scales.
A /26 address space ensures that the firewall has enough IP addresses available to accommodate the scaling. Azure Firewall doesn't require a subnet that's larger than /26. Name the Azure Firewall subnetAzureFirewallSubnet.
Configure an Azure Firewall subnet with a /26 address space.You need a dedicated subnet for Azure Firewall. Azure Firewall provisions more capacity as it scales.
A /26 address space ensures that the firewall has enough IP addresses available to accommodate the scaling. Azure Firewall doesn't require a subnet that's larger than /26. Name the Azure Firewall subnetAzureFirewallSubnet.
Don't enable advanced logging if you don't need it.Azure Firewall provides some advanced logging capabilities that can incur significant costs to keep active. Instead, you can use these capabilities for troubleshooting purposes only and for limited amounts of time. Disable capabilities when you don't need them. For example,top flows and flow trace logsare expensive and can cause excessive CPU and storage usage on the Azure Firewall infrastructure.
Don't enable advanced logging if you don't need it.Azure Firewall provides some advanced logging capabilities that can incur significant costs to keep active. Instead, you can use these capabilities for troubleshooting purposes only and for limited amounts of time. Disable capabilities when you don't need them. For example,top flows and flow trace logsare expensive and can cause excessive CPU and storage usage on the Azure Firewall infrastructure.
Azure policies
Azure provides an extensive set of built-in policies related to Azure Firewall and its dependencies. Some of the preceding recommendations can be audited through Azure Policy. For example, you can check whether:
Network interfaces shouldn't have public IPs. This policy denies network interfaces that are configured with a public IP. Public IP addresses allow internet resources to communicate inbound to Azure resources, and Azure resources can communicate outbound to the internet.
Network interfaces shouldn't have public IPs. This policy denies network interfaces that are configured with a public IP. Public IP addresses allow internet resources to communicate inbound to Azure resources, and Azure resources can communicate outbound to the internet.
All internet traffic should be routed via your deployed Azure Firewall instance. Azure Security Center identifies that some of your subnets aren't protected with a next generation firewall. Protect your subnets from potential threats. Use Azure Firewall or a supported next generation firewall to restrict access to your subnets.
All internet traffic should be routed via your deployed Azure Firewall instance. Azure Security Center identifies that some of your subnets aren't protected with a next generation firewall. Protect your subnets from potential threats. Use Azure Firewall or a supported next generation firewall to restrict access to your subnets.
For comprehensive governance, review theAzure Policy built-in definitions for Azure Firewalland other policies that might affect the security of the network.
Azure Advisor recommendations
Azure Advisor is a personalized cloud consultant that helps you follow best practices to optimize your Azure deployments. Here are some recommendations that can help you improve the reliability, security, cost effectiveness, performance, and operational excellence of Azure Firewall.
Reliability
Security
Cost Optimization
Performance
Operational Excellence
Next steps
See the following resources that demonstrate the
recommendations in this article.
Use the following reference architectures as examples of how to
apply this article's guidance to a workload:Hub-spoke network topology in AzureAzure Firewall architecture overviewUse Azure Firewall to help protect an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster
Use the following reference architectures as examples of how to
apply this article's guidance to a workload:
Hub-spoke network topology in Azure
Azure Firewall architecture overview
Use Azure Firewall to help protect an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster
Use the following resources to improve your implementation expertise:Azure Firewall documentationWhat is Firewall Manager?
Use the following resources to improve your implementation expertise:
Azure Firewall documentation
What is Firewall Manager?
See other resources:Azure Firewall service limits, quotas, and constraintsAzure security baseline for Azure FirewallUse the Azure portal to deploy and configure Azure Firewall and policyConfigure Azure Firewall in a Virtual WAN hub
See other resources:
Azure Firewall service limits, quotas, and constraints
Azure security baseline for Azure Firewall
Use the Azure portal to deploy and configure Azure Firewall and policy
Configure Azure Firewall in a Virtual WAN hub
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources