Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)?
Article
2024-12-04
7 contributors
In this article
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is a managed Kubernetes service that you can use to deploy and manage containerized applications. You need minimal container orchestration expertise to use AKS. AKS reduces the complexity and operational overhead of managing Kubernetes by offloading much of that responsibility to Azure. AKS is an ideal platform for deploying and managing containerized applications that require high availability, scalability, and portability, and for deploying applications to multiple regions, using open-source tools, and integrating with existing DevOps tools.
This article is intended for platform administrators or developers who are looking for a scalable, automated, managed Kubernetes solution.
Overview of AKS
AKS reduces the complexity and operational overhead of managing Kubernetes by shifting that responsibility to Azure. When you create an AKS cluster, Azure automatically creates and configures a control plane for you at no cost. The Azure platform manages the AKS control plane, which is responsible for the Kubernetes objects and worker nodes that you deploy to run your applications. Azure takes care of critical operations like health monitoring and maintenance, and you only pay for the AKS nodes that run your applications.

Note
AKS isCNCF-certifiedand is compliant with SOC, ISO, PCI DSS, and HIPAA. For more information, see theMicrosoft Azure compliance overview.
Container solutions in Azure
Azure offers a range of container solutions designed to accommodate various workloads, architectures, and business needs.
For more information comparing the various solutions, see the following resources:
Comparing the service models of Azure container solutions
Comparing Azure compute service options
When to use AKS
The following list describes some common use cases for AKS:
Lift and shift to containers with AKS: Migrate existing applications to containers and run them in a fully managed Kubernetes environment.
Microservices with AKS: Simplify the deployment and management of microservices-based applications with streamlined horizontal scaling, self-healing, load balancing, and secret management.
Secure DevOps for AKS: Efficiently balance speed and security by implementing secure DevOps with Kubernetes.
Bursting from AKS with ACI: Use virtual nodes to provision pods inside ACI that start in seconds and scale to meet demand.
Machine learning model training with AKS: Train models using large datasets with familiar tools, such as TensorFlow and Kubeflow.
Data streaming with AKS: Ingest and process real-time data streams with millions of data points collected via sensors, and perform fast analyses and computations to develop insights into complex scenarios.
Using Windows containers on AKS: Run Windows Server containers on AKS to modernize your Windows applications and infrastructure.
Features of AKS
The following table lists some of the key features of AKS:
Get started with AKS
Get started with AKS using the following resources:
Learn thecore Kubernetes concepts for AKS.
Evaluate application deployment on AKS with ourAKS tutorial series.
Review theAzure Well-Architected Framework for AKSto learn how to design and operate reliable, secure, efficient, and cost-effective applications on AKS.
Plan your design and operationsfor AKS using our reference architectures.
Exploreconfiguration options and recommended best practices for cost optimizationon AKS.
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources