Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Automatic (preview)?
Article
2025-03-10
3 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ AKS Automatic (preview)
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Automatic offers an experience that makes the most common tasks on Kubernetes fast and frictionless, while preserving the flexibility, extensibility, and consistency of Kubernetes. Azure takes care of your cluster setup, including node management, scaling, security, and preconfigured settings that follow AKS well-architected recommendations. Automatic clusters dynamically allocate compute resources based on your specific workload requirements and are tuned for running production applications.
Production ready by default: Clusters are preconfigured for optimal production use, suitable for most applications. They offer fully managed node pools that automatically allocate and scale resources based on your workload needs. Pods are bin packed efficiently, to maximize resource utilization.
Production ready by default: Clusters are preconfigured for optimal production use, suitable for most applications. They offer fully managed node pools that automatically allocate and scale resources based on your workload needs. Pods are bin packed efficiently, to maximize resource utilization.
Built-in best practices and safeguards: AKS Automatic clusters have a hardened default configuration, with many cluster, application, and networking security settings enabled by default. AKS automatically patches your nodes and cluster components while adhering to any planned maintenance schedules.
Built-in best practices and safeguards: AKS Automatic clusters have a hardened default configuration, with many cluster, application, and networking security settings enabled by default. AKS automatically patches your nodes and cluster components while adhering to any planned maintenance schedules.
Code to Kubernetes in minutes: Go from a container image to a deployed application that adheres to best practices patterns within minutes, with access to the comprehensive capabilities of the Kubernetes API and its rich ecosystem.
Code to Kubernetes in minutes: Go from a container image to a deployed application that adheres to best practices patterns within minutes, with access to the comprehensive capabilities of the Kubernetes API and its rich ecosystem.
AKS Automatic and Standard feature comparison
The following table provides a comparison of options that are available, preconfigured, and default in both AKS Automatic and AKS Standard. For more information on whether specific features are available in Automatic, you may need to check the documentation for that feature.
Pre-configuredfeatures are always enabled and you can't disable or change their settings.Defaultfeatures are configured for you but can be changed.Optionalfeatures are available for you to configure and are not enabled by default.
Application deployment, monitoring, and observability
Application deployment can be streamlined usingautomated deploymentsfrom source control, which creates Kubernetes manifest and generates CI/CD workflows. Additionally, the cluster is configured with monitoring tools such as Managed Prometheus for metrics, Managed Grafana for visualization, and Container Insights for log collection.
Useautomated deploymentsto containerize applications from source control, create Kubernetes manifests, and continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) workflows.
Create deployment pipelines usingGitHub Actions for Kubernetes.
Bring your own CI/CD pipeline.
Useautomated deploymentsto containerize applications from source control, create Kubernetes manifests, and continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) workflows.
Create deployment pipelines usingGitHub Actions for Kubernetes.
Bring your own CI/CD pipeline.
Managed Prometheusfor metric collection when using Azure CLI or the Azure portal.
Managed Grafanafor visualization when using Azure CLI or the Azure portal.
Container insightsfor log collection when using Azure CLI or the Azure portal.
Managed Prometheusfor metric collection.
Managed Grafanafor visualization.
Container insightsfor log collection.
Node management, scaling, and cluster operations
Node management is automatically handled without the need for manual node pool creation. Scaling is seamless, with nodes created based on workload requests. Additionally, features for workload scaling like Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA),Kubernetes Event Driven Autoscaling (KEDA), andVertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA)are enabled. Clusters are configured for automatic node repair, automatic cluster upgrades, and detection of deprecated Kubernetes standard API usage. You can also set a planned maintenance schedule for upgrades if needed.
Cluster autoscaler
Node Autoprovisioning
Kubernetes Event Driven Autoscaling (KEDA)
Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA)
Standard tier cluster with up to 5,000 nodes and acluster uptime SLA.
Premium tier cluster with up to 5,000 nodes,cluster uptime Service Level Agreement (SLA), andlong term support.
Azure Linux
Windows Server
Security and policies
Cluster authentication and authorization useAzure Role-based Access Control (RBAC) for Kubernetes authorizationand applications can use features likeworkload identity with Microsoft Entra Workload IDandOpenID Connect (OIDC) cluster issuerto have secure communication with Azure services.Deployment safeguardsenforce Kubernetes best practices through Azure Policy controls and the built-inimage cleanerremoves unused images with vulnerabilities, enhancing image security.
Azure RBAC for Kubernetes authorization
Kubernetes RBAC with Microsoft Entra integration
Workload identity with Microsoft Entra Workload ID
OpenID Connect (OIDC) cluster issuer
Workload identity with Microsoft Entra Workload ID
OpenID Connect (OIDC) cluster issuer
Networking
AKS Automatic clusters usemanaged Virtual Network powered by Azure CNI Overlay with Ciliumfor high-performance networking and robust security. Ingress is handled bymanaged NGINX using the application routing add-on, integrating seamlessly with Azure DNS and Azure Key Vault. Egress uses amanaged NAT gatewayfor scalable outbound connections. Additionally, you have the flexibility to enableAzure Service Mesh (Istio) ingressor bring your own service mesh.
Custom virtual network
Custom virtual networkwith private cluster.
Azure CNI
Azure CNI Overlay
Azure CNI Overlay powered by Cilium
Bring your own CNI
Azure Service Mesh (Istio)ingress gateway
Bring your own ingress or gateway.
Managed NGINX using the application routing add-onwith integrations for Azure DNS  and Azure Key Vault.
Azure Service Mesh (Istio)ingress gateway
Bring your own ingress or gateway.
Azure Load Balancer
User-assigned NAT gateway
User-defined routing (UDR)
User-assigned NAT gateway
AKS managed NAT gateway
User-defined routing (UDR)
Azure Service Mesh (Istio)
Bring your own service mesh.
Azure Service Mesh (Istio)
Bring your own service mesh.
Next steps
To learn more about AKS Automatic, follow the quickstart to create a cluster.
Quickstart: Deploy an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Automatic cluster (preview)
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources