Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Purchase of Azure in China
Article
2024-04-17
4 contributors
In this article
Online Service Terms (OST)
Here's where to find information about service terms:
Global OST
China OST
Online Service Premium Agreement (OSPA)
The China Enterprise customer who wants to purchase Azure through a contractual process can choose an Online Service Premium Agreement (OSPA). This
agreement supports two service models: Direct OSPA and Indirect OSPA. An OSPA discount can only be issued from a China local CE and approved by the Business Desk.
Multi-Year Monetary Commitment (MYMC)
MYMC is supported in China. The request can be raised by the local CE, and approved by the local Business Desk.
Reserved Instances / Compute Pre-purchase (CPP)
Reserved Instances are not supported by China legacy commerce platform. But you can get the annually pre-committed price by CPP (Compute Pre-purchase). CPP is fulfilled by a CPP amendment (order form), attached to the OSPA.
CPP SKU and prices are in the price list, which can be accessed from 21Vianet, Microsoft Account Teams and OSPA Indirect Partners.
New Commerce Model: 21VCA-E
The new commerce model, characterized by an efficient and flexible innovation framework, is designed to meet the emerging needs of your enterprise in digital transformation. It aims to empower businesses to enhance resilience, improve efficiency, and accelerate their path to commercial success. With the introduction of new incentives and terms, this model provides customers with expanded choices and greater flexibility in their purchasing methods, timing, and sources.
The benefit of 21VCA-E
Faster time to value with solutions from 21Vianet and partners.
Increased flexibility without compromising control.
Optimize costs and unlock new savings.
Build on a foundation of trust and security.
New Commerce Experience on Microsoft Azure Operated by 21Vianet
One 21Vianet Customer Agreement for all Cloud - replacing OSPA contracting complexity, renewal cycles, and paperwork with a streamlined digital process.
Azure Reservation
Azure savings plan for compute
Cost Management
Azure subscriptions for dev/test also available（Special subscriptions for dev/test teams running non-production workloads）
A flexible billing account structure with the 21VCA-E
With the 21VCA-E, there are no upfront payments or minimum purchase required for Azure services:
Choose pay-as-you-go to pay just for what you use and get billed monthly in arrears
Choose Azure prepayment to make upfront payments for services usage
21VCA-E offers a seamless end-to-end process consisting of 4 steps to complete the transaction. Once the customer has completed the signing and chopping of the evergreen 21VCA customer agreement with the partner, the partner will then submit the entire package to 21V for the final validation. Deals that successfully pass this validation will be provisioned within a few of hours, resulting in a remarkable 6-8 times reduction in waiting time compared to the existing OSPA process.
Pre-transaction: Create Tenant Org ID and provide Tenant ID to partner
Agreement & quote generation
Package Chop and sign
Provision
Unified Azure Portal Experience: The 21VCA-E for Azure improves the OSPA experience of multiple tools to a new experience by letting customers manage everything they do with Azure in a single unified portal at portal.azure.cn. (EA Portal, Azure Portal, Account Portal)
Cost Management + Billing: Through the integrated Azure portal, customers can not only deploy services and manage roles and permissions but also efficiently manage and analyze their bills with the newly added Cost Management + Billing feature.
Additional resources