Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure API Management Diagnostics overview
Article
2024-04-03
5 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: Consumption | Developer | Basic | Standard | Premium
When you build and manage an API in Azure API Management, you want to be prepared for any issues that may arise, from 404 not found errors to 502 bad gateway error. API Management Diagnostics is an intelligent and interactive experience to help you troubleshoot your API published in APIM with no configuration required. When you do run into issues with your published APIs, API Management Diagnostics points out what’s wrong, and guides you to the right information to quickly troubleshoot and resolve the issue.
Although this experience is most helpful when you re having issues with your API within the last 24 hours, all the diagnostic graphs are always available for you to analyze.
Open API Management Diagnostics
To access API Management Diagnostics, navigate to your API Management service instance in theAzure portal. In the left navigation, selectDiagnose and solve problems.

Intelligent search
You can search your issues or problems in the search bar on the top of the page. The search also helps you find the tools that may help to troubleshoot or resolve your issues.

Troubleshooting categories
You can troubleshoot issues under categories. Common issues that are related to your API performance, gateway, API policies, and service tier can all be analyzed within each category. Each category also provides more specific diagnostics checks.

Availability and performance
Check your API availability and performance issues under this category. After selecting this category tile, you will see a few common checks are recommended in an interactive interface. Click each check to dive deep to the specifics of each issue. The check will also provide you a graph showing your API performance and a summary of performance issues. For example, your API service may have had a 5xx error and timeout in the last hour at the backend.


API policies
This category detects errors and notifies you of your policy issues.
A similar interactive interface guides you to the data metrics to help you troubleshoot your API policies configuration.

Gateway performance
For gateway requests or responses or any 4xx or 5xx errors on your gateway, use this category to monitor and troubleshoot. Similarly, leverage the interactive interface to dive deep on the specific area that you want to check for your API gateway performance.

Service upgrade
This category checks which service tier (SKU) you are currently using and reminds you to upgrade to avoid any issues that may be related to that tier. The same interactive interface helps you go deep with more graphics and a summary check result.

Search documentation
In additional to the Diagnose and solve problems tools, you can search for troubleshooting documentation related to your  issue. After running the diagnostics on your service, selectSearch Documentationin the interactive interface.


Related content
Also useAPI analyticsto analyze the usage and performance of the APIs.
Want to troubleshoot Web Apps issues with Diagnostics? Read ithere
Leverage Diagnostics to check Azure Kubernetes Services issues. SeeDiagnostics on AKS
Post your questions or feedback atUserVoiceby adding "[Diag]" in the title.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources