Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cost optimization in Azure Monitor
Article
2025-03-19
2 contributors
In this article
Cost optimization refers to ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. You can significantly reduce your cost for Azure Monitor by understanding your different configuration options and opportunities to reduce the amount of data that it collects. Before you use this article, you should seeAzure Monitor cost and usageto understand the different ways that Azure Monitor charges and how to view your monthly bill.
This article describesCost optimizationfor Azure Monitor as part of theAzure Well-Architected Framework. The Azure Well-Architected Framework is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. The framework consists of five pillars of architectural excellence:
Reliability
Security
Cost Optimization
Operational Excellence
Performance Efficiency
Azure Monitor Logs
Design checklist
Determine whether to combine your operational data and your security data in the same Log Analytics workspace.
Configure pricing tier for the amount of data that each Log Analytics workspace typically collects.
Configure data retention and archiving.
Configure tables used for debugging, troubleshooting, and auditing as Basic Logs.
Limit data collection from data sources for the workspace.
Regularly analyze collected data to identify trends and anomalies.
Create an alert when data collection is high.
Consider a daily cap as a preventative measure to ensure that you don't exceed a particular budget.
Set up alerts on Azure Advisor cost recommendations for Log Analytics workspaces.
Configuration recommendations
Consider configuring the cost effective Basic logs plan on selected tables - We've identified ingestion of more than 1 GB per month to tables that are eligible for the low cost Basic log data plan. The Basic log plan gives you query capabilities for debugging and troubleshooting at a lower cost.
Consider changing pricing tier- Based on your current usage volume, investigate changing your pricing (Commitment) tier to receive a discount and reduce costs.
Consider removing unused restored tables - You have one or more tables with restored data active in your workspace. If you're no longer using a restored data, delete the table to avoid unnecessary charges.
Data ingestion anomaly was detected - We've identified a much higher ingestion rate over the past week, based on your ingestion in the three previous weeks. Take note of this change and the expected change in your costs.
Azure resources
Design checklist
Collect only critical resource log data from Azure resources.
Configuration recommendations
Alerts
Design checklist
Activity log alerts, service health alerts, and resource health alerts are free of charge.
When using log search alerts, minimize log search alert frequency.
When using metric alerts, minimize the number of resources being monitored.
Configuration recommendations
Virtual machines
Design checklist
*8 Migrate from Log Analytics agent to Azure Monitor agent for granular data filtering.
Filter data that you don't require from agents.
Determine whether you'll use VM insights and what data to collect.
Reduce polling frequency of performance counters.
Ensure that VMs aren't sending duplicate data.
Use Log Analytics workspace insights to analyze billable costs and identify cost saving opportunities.
Migrate your SCOM environment to Azure Monitor SCOM Managed Instance.
Configuration recommendations
Containers
Design checklist
Enable collection of metrics through the Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus.
Configure agent collection to modify data collection in Container insights.
Modify settings for collection of metric data by Container insights.
Disable Container insights collection of metric data if you don't use the Container insights experience in the Azure portal.
If you don't query the container logs table regularly or use it for alerts, configure it as basic logs.
Limit collection of resource logs you don't need.
Use resource-specific logging for AKS resource logs and configure tables as basic logs.
Use OpenCost to collect details about your Kubernetes costs.
Configuration recommendations
Application Insights
Note
If you're seeing unexpected charges or high costs in Application Insights, this guide can help. It covers common causes like high telemetry volume, data ingestion spikes, and misconfigured sampling. It's especially useful if you're troubleshooting issues related to cost spikes, telemetry volume, sampling not working, data caps, high ingestion, or unexpected billing. To get started, seeTroubleshoot high data ingestion in Application Insights.
Design checklist
Change to workspace-based Application Insights.
Use sampling to tune the amount of data collected.
Limit the number of Ajax calls.
Disable unneeded modules.
Preaggregate metrics from any calls to TrackMetric.
Limit the use of custom metrics where possible.
Ensure use of updated software development kits (SDKs).
Limit unwanted host trace and general trace logging using log levels.
Configuration recommendations
Next step
Learn more aboutgetting started with Azure Monitor.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources