Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data protection overview
Article
2024-07-29
5 contributors
In this article
Azure Storage provides data protection for Blob Storage and Azure Data Lake Storage to help you to prepare for scenarios where you need to recover data that has been deleted or overwritten. It's important to think about how to best protect your data before an incident occurs that could compromise it. This guide can help you decide in advance which data protection features your scenario requires, and how to implement them. If you should need to recover data that has been deleted or overwritten, this overview also provides guidance on how to proceed, based on your scenario.
In the Azure Storage documentation,data protectionrefers to strategies for protecting the storage account and data within it from being deleted or modified, or for restoring data after it has been deleted or modified. Azure Storage also offers options fordisaster recovery, including multiple levels of redundancy to protect your data from service outages due to hardware problems or natural disasters. Customer-managed (unplanned) failover is another disaster recovery option that allows you to fail over to a secondary region if the primary region becomes unavailable. For more information about how your data is protected from service outages, seeDisaster recovery.
Recommendations for basic data protection
If you're looking for basic data protection coverage for your storage account and the data that it contains, then Microsoft recommends taking the following steps to begin with:
Configure an Azure Resource Manager lock on the storage account to protect the account from deletion or configuration changes.Learn more...
Enable container soft delete for the storage account to recover a deleted container and its contents.Learn more...
Save the state of a blob at regular intervals:For Blob Storage workloads, enable blob versioning to automatically save the state of your data each time a blob is overwritten.Learn more...For Azure Data Lake Storage workloads, take manual snapshots to save the state of your data at a particular point in time.Learn more...
For Blob Storage workloads, enable blob versioning to automatically save the state of your data each time a blob is overwritten.Learn more...
For Azure Data Lake Storage workloads, take manual snapshots to save the state of your data at a particular point in time.Learn more...
These options, as well as other data protection options for other scenarios, are described in more detail in the following section.
For an overview of the costs involved with these features, seeSummary of cost considerations.
Overview of data protection options
The following table summarizes the options available in Azure Storage for common data protection scenarios. Choose the scenarios that are applicable to your situation to learn more about the options available to you. Not all features are available at this time for storage accounts with a hierarchical namespace enabled.
Data protection by resource type
The following table summarizes the Azure Storage data protection options according to the resources they protect.
1An Azure Resource Manager lock doesn't protect a container from deletion.2Storage account deletion fails if there is at least one container with version-level immutable storage enabled.3Container deletion fails if at least one blob exists in the container, regardless of whether policy is locked or unlocked.4Overwriting the contents of the current version of the blob creates a new version. An immutability policy protects a version's metadata from being overwritten.5While a legal hold or a locked time-based retention policy is in effect at container scope, the storage account is also protected from deletion.6Not currently supported for Data Lake Storage workloads.7AzCopy and Azure Data Factory are options that are supported for both Blob Storage and Data Lake Storage workloads. Object replication is supported for Blob Storage workloads only.
Recover deleted or overwritten data
If you should need to recover data that has been overwritten or deleted, how you proceed depends on which data protection options you've enabled and which resource was affected. The following table describes the actions that you can take to recover data.
1Not currently supported for Data Lake Storage workloads.
Summary of cost considerations
The following table summarizes the cost considerations for the various data protection options described in this guide.
Disaster recovery
Azure Storage always maintains multiple copies of your data so that it's protected from planned and unplanned events, including transient hardware failures, network or power outages, and massive natural disasters. Redundancy ensures that your storage account meets its availability and durability targets even in the face of failures. For more information about how to configure your storage account for high availability, seeAzure Storage redundancy.
If your storage account is configured for geo-redundancy, you have the option to initiate an unplanned failover from the primary to the secondary region during a data center failure. For more information, seeDisaster recovery planning and failover.
Customer-managed failover currently supports storage accounts with a hierarchical namespace enabled in preview status only. For more information, seeDisaster recovery planning and failover.
Next steps
Azure Storage redundancy
Disaster recovery and storage account failover
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources