Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Conditional Access?
Article
2025-03-04
22 contributors
In this article
Modern security extends beyond an organization's network perimeter to include user and device identity. Organizations now use identity-driven signals as part of their access control decisions. Microsoft Entra Conditional Access brings signals together, to make decisions, and enforce organizational policies. Conditional Access is Microsoft'sZero Trust policy enginetaking signals from various sources into account when enforcing policy decisions.

Conditional Access policies at their simplest are if-then statements;ifa user wants to access a resource,thenthey must complete an action. For example: If a user wants to access an application or service like Microsoft 365, then they must perform multifactor authentication to gain access.
Administrators are faced with two primary goals:
Empower users to be productive wherever and whenever
Protect the organization's assets
Use Conditional Access policies to apply the right access controls when needed to keep your organization secure.
Important
Conditional Access policies are enforced after first-factor authentication is completed. Conditional Access isn't intended to be an organization's first line of defense for scenarios like denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, but it can use signals from these events to determine access.
Common signals
Conditional Access takes signals from various sources into account when making access decisions.

These signals include:
User or group membershipPolicies can be targeted to specific users and groups giving administrators fine-grained control over access.
Policies can be targeted to specific users and groups giving administrators fine-grained control over access.
IP Location informationOrganizations can create trusted IP address ranges that can be used when making policy decisions.Administrators can specify entire countries or regions IP ranges to block or allow traffic from.
Organizations can create trusted IP address ranges that can be used when making policy decisions.
Administrators can specify entire countries or regions IP ranges to block or allow traffic from.
DeviceUsers with devices of specific platforms or marked with a specific state can be used when enforcing Conditional Access policies.Use filters for devices to target policies to specific devices like privileged access workstations.
Users with devices of specific platforms or marked with a specific state can be used when enforcing Conditional Access policies.
Use filters for devices to target policies to specific devices like privileged access workstations.
ApplicationUsers attempting to access specific applications can trigger different Conditional Access policies.
Users attempting to access specific applications can trigger different Conditional Access policies.
Real-time and calculated risk detectionSignals integration withMicrosoft Entra ID Protectionlets Conditional Access policies identify and remediate risky users and sign-in behavior.
Signals integration withMicrosoft Entra ID Protectionlets Conditional Access policies identify and remediate risky users and sign-in behavior.
Microsoft Defender for Cloud AppsLets user application access and sessions be monitored and controlled in real time. This integration increases visibility and control over access to and activities done within your cloud environment.
Lets user application access and sessions be monitored and controlled in real time. This integration increases visibility and control over access to and activities done within your cloud environment.
Common decisions
Block accessMost restrictive decision
Most restrictive decision
Grant access
Less restrictive decision that can require one or more of the following options:Require multifactor authenticationRequire authentication strengthRequire device to be marked as compliantRequire Microsoft Entra hybrid joined deviceRequire approved client appRequire app protection policyRequire password changeRequire terms of use
Require multifactor authentication
Require authentication strength
Require device to be marked as compliant
Require Microsoft Entra hybrid joined device
Require approved client app
Require app protection policy
Require password change
Require terms of use
Commonly applied policies
Many organizations havecommon access concerns that Conditional Access policies can help with, such as:
Requiring multifactor authentication for users with administrative roles
Requiring multifactor authentication for Azure management tasks
Blocking sign-ins for users attempting to use legacy authentication protocols
Requiring trusted locations for security information registration
Blocking or granting access from specific locations
Blocking risky sign-in behaviors
Requiring organization-managed devices for specific applications
Admins can create policies from scratch or start from a template policy in the portal or using the Microsoft Graph API.
Administrator experience
Administrators with theConditional Access Administratorrole can manage policies.
Conditional Access is found in theMicrosoft Entra admin centerunderProtection>Conditional Access.

TheOverviewpage provides a summary of policy state, users, devices, and applications, as well as general and security alerts with suggestions.
TheCoveragepage provides a synopsis of applications with and without Conditional Access policy coverage over the last seven days.
TheMonitoringpage allows administrators to see a graph of sign-ins that can be filtered to see potential gaps in policy coverage.
Conditional Access policies on thePoliciespage can be filtered by administrators based on items like the actor, target resource, condition, control applied, state, or date. This filtering ability lets administrators find specific policies based on their configuration quickly.
License requirements
Using this feature requires Microsoft Entra ID P1 licenses. To find the right license for your requirements, seeCompare generally available features of Microsoft Entra ID.
Customers withMicrosoft 365 Business Premium licensesalso have access to Conditional Access features.
Risk-based policies require access toMicrosoft Entra ID Protection, which requires P2 licenses.
Other products and features that interact with Conditional Access policies require appropriate licensing for those products and features.
When licenses required for Conditional Access expire, policies aren't automatically disabled or deleted. This lets customers migrate away from Conditional Access policies without a sudden change in their security posture. Remaining policies can be viewed and deleted, but no longer updated.
Security defaultshelp protect against identity-related attacks and are available for all customers.
Zero Trust
This feature helps organizations to align theiridentitieswith the three guiding principles of a Zero Trust architecture:
Verify explicitly
Use least privilege
Assume breach
To find out more about Zero Trust and other ways to align your organization to the guiding principles, see theZero Trust Guidance Center.
Next steps
Building a Conditional Access policy piece by piece
Plan your Conditional Access deployment
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources