Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Authentication and authorization to APIs in Azure API Management
Article
2023-11-15
3 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: All API Management tiers
This article is an introduction to a rich, flexible set of features in API Management that help you secure users' access to managed APIs.
API authentication and authorization in API Management involve securing the end-to-end communication of client apps to the API Management gateway and through to backend APIs. In many customer environments, OAuth 2.0 is the preferred API authorization protocol. API Management supports OAuth 2.0 authorization between the client and the API Management gateway, between the gateway and the backend API, or both independently.

API Management supports other client-side and service-side authentication and authorization mechanisms that supplement OAuth 2.0 or that are useful when OAuth 2.0 authorization for APIs isn't possible. How you choose from among these options depends on the maturity of your organization's API environment, your security and compliance requirements, and your organization's approach tomitigating common API threats.
Important
Securing users' access to APIs is one of many considerations for securing your API Management environment. For more information, seeAzure security baseline for API Management.
Note
Other API Management components have separate mechanisms to secure and restrict user access:
For managing the API Management instance through the Azure control plane, API Management relies on Microsoft Entra ID and Azurerole-based access control (RBAC).
The API Management developer portal supportsseveral optionsto facilitate secure user sign-up and sign-in.
Authentication versus authorization
Here's a brief explanation of authentication and authorization in the context of access to APIs:
Authentication- The process of verifying the identity of a user or app that accesses the API. Authentication may be done through credentials such as username and password, a certificate, or through single sign-on (SSO) or other methods.
Authentication- The process of verifying the identity of a user or app that accesses the API. Authentication may be done through credentials such as username and password, a certificate, or through single sign-on (SSO) or other methods.
Authorization- The process of determining whether a user or app has permission to access a particular API, often through a token-based protocol such as OAuth 2.0.
Authorization- The process of determining whether a user or app has permission to access a particular API, often through a token-based protocol such as OAuth 2.0.
Note
To supplement authentication and authorization, access to APIs should also be secured using TLS to protect the credentials or tokens that are used for authentication or authorization.
OAuth 2.0 concepts
OAuth 2.0is a standard authorization framework that is widely used to secure access to resources such as web APIs. OAuth 2.0 restricts actions of what a client app can perform on resources on behalf of the user, without ever sharing the user's credentials. While OAuth 2.0 isn't an authentication protocol, it's often used with OpenID Connect (OIDC), which extends OAuth 2.0 by providing user authentication and SSO functionality.
OAuth flow
What happens when a client app calls an API with a request that is secured using TLS and OAuth 2.0? The following is an abbreviated example flow:
The client (the calling app, orbearer) authenticates using credentials to anidentity provider.
The client (the calling app, orbearer) authenticates using credentials to anidentity provider.
The client obtains a time-limitedaccess token(a JSON web token, or JWT) from the identity provider'sauthorization server.The identity provider (for example, Microsoft Entra ID) is theissuerof the token, and the token includes anaudience claimthat authorizes access to aresource server(for example, to a backend API, or to the API Management gateway itself).
The client obtains a time-limitedaccess token(a JSON web token, or JWT) from the identity provider'sauthorization server.
The identity provider (for example, Microsoft Entra ID) is theissuerof the token, and the token includes anaudience claimthat authorizes access to aresource server(for example, to a backend API, or to the API Management gateway itself).
The client calls the API and presents the access token - for example, in an Authorization header.
The client calls the API and presents the access token - for example, in an Authorization header.
Theresource servervalidates the access token. Validation is a complex process that includes a check that theissuerandaudienceclaims contain expected values.
Theresource servervalidates the access token. Validation is a complex process that includes a check that theissuerandaudienceclaims contain expected values.
Based on token validation criteria, access to resources of thebackendAPI is then granted.
Based on token validation criteria, access to resources of thebackendAPI is then granted.
Depending on the type of client app and scenarios, differentauthorization flowsare needed to request and manage tokens. For example, the authorization code flow and grant type are commonly used in apps that call web APIs. Learn more aboutOAuth flows and application scenarios in Microsoft Entra ID.
OAuth 2.0 authorization scenarios in API Management
Scenario 1 - Client app authorizes directly to backend
A common authorization scenario is when the calling application requests access to the backend API directly and presents an OAuth 2.0 token in an authorization header to the gateway. Azure API Management then acts as a "transparent" proxy between the caller and backend API, and passes the token through unchanged to the backend. The scope of the access token is between the calling application and backend API.
The following image shows an example where Microsoft Entra ID is the authorization provider. The client app might be a single-page application (SPA).

Although the access token sent along with the HTTP request is intended for the backend API, API Management still allows for a defense in depth approach. For example, configure policies tovalidate the JWT, rejecting requests that arrive without a token, or a token that's not valid for the intended backend API. You can also configure API Management to check other claims of interest extracted from the token.
Note
If you secure an API exposed through Azure API Management with OAuth 2.0 in this way, you can configure API Management to generate a valid token for test purposes on behalf of an Azure portal or developer portal test console user. You need to add an OAuth 2.0 server to your API Management instance and enable OAuth 2.0 authorization settings in the API. For more information, seeHow to authorize test console of developer portal by configuring OAuth 2.0 user authorization.
Example:
Protect an API in Azure API Management using OAuth 2.0 authorization with Microsoft Entra ID
Tip
In the special case when API access is protected using Microsoft Entra ID, you can configure thevalidate-azure-ad-tokenpolicy for token validation.
Scenario 2 - Client app authorizes to API Management
In this scenario, the API Management service acts on behalf of the API, and the calling application requests access to the API Management instance. The scope of the access token is between the calling application and the API Management gateway. In API Management, configure a policy (validate-jwtorvalidate-azure-ad-token) to validate the token before the gateway passes the request to the backend. A separate mechanism typically secures the connection between the gateway and the backend API.
In the following example, Microsoft Entra ID is again the authorization provider, and mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication secures the connection between the gateway and the backend.

There are different reasons for doing this. For example:
The backend is a legacy API that can't be updated to support OAuthAPI Management should first be configured to validate the token (checking the issuer and audience claims at a minimum). After validation, use one of several options available to secure onward connections from API Management, such as mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication. SeeService side options, later in this article.
The backend is a legacy API that can't be updated to support OAuth
API Management should first be configured to validate the token (checking the issuer and audience claims at a minimum). After validation, use one of several options available to secure onward connections from API Management, such as mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication. SeeService side options, later in this article.
The context required by the backend isn't possible to establish from the callerAfter API Management has successfully validated the token received from the caller, it then needs to obtain an access token for the backend API using its own context, or context derived from the calling application. This scenario can be accomplished using either:A custom policy such assend-requestto obtain an onward access token valid for the backend API from a configured identity provider.The API Management instance's own identity – passing the token from the API Management resource's system-assigned or user-assignedmanaged identityto the backend API.
The context required by the backend isn't possible to establish from the caller
After API Management has successfully validated the token received from the caller, it then needs to obtain an access token for the backend API using its own context, or context derived from the calling application. This scenario can be accomplished using either:
A custom policy such assend-requestto obtain an onward access token valid for the backend API from a configured identity provider.
A custom policy such assend-requestto obtain an onward access token valid for the backend API from a configured identity provider.
The API Management instance's own identity – passing the token from the API Management resource's system-assigned or user-assignedmanaged identityto the backend API.
The API Management instance's own identity – passing the token from the API Management resource's system-assigned or user-assignedmanaged identityto the backend API.
The organization wants to adopt a standardized authorization approachRegardless of the authentication and authorization mechanisms on their API backends, organizations may choose to converge on OAuth 2.0 for a standardized authorization approach on the front end. API Management's gateway can enable consistent authorization configuration and a common experience for API consumers as the organization's backends evolve.
The organization wants to adopt a standardized authorization approach
Regardless of the authentication and authorization mechanisms on their API backends, organizations may choose to converge on OAuth 2.0 for a standardized authorization approach on the front end. API Management's gateway can enable consistent authorization configuration and a common experience for API consumers as the organization's backends evolve.
Scenario 3: API Management authorizes to backend
With managedconnections(formerly calledauthorizations), you use credential manager in API Management to authorize access to one or more backend or SaaS services, such as LinkedIn, GitHub, or other OAuth 2.0-compatible backends. In this scenario, a user or client app makes a request to the API Management gateway, with gateway access controlled using an identity provider or otherclient side options. Then, throughpolicy configuration, the user or client app delegates backend authentication and authorization to API Management.
In the following example, a subscription key is used between the client and the gateway, and GitHub is the credential provider for the backend API.

With a connection to a credential provider, API Management acquires and refreshes the tokens for API access in the OAuth 2.0 flow. Connections simplify token management in multiple scenarios, such as:
A client app might need to authorize to multiple SaaS backends to resolve multiple fields using GraphQL resolvers.
Users authenticate to API Management by SSO from their identity provider, but authorize to a backend SaaS provider (such as LinkedIn) using a common organizational account.
A client app (or bot) needs to access backend secured online resources on behalf of an authenticated user (for example, checking emails or placing an order).
Examples:
Configure credential manager - Microsoft Graph API
Configure credential manager - GitHub API
Configure credential manager - user delegated access to backend APIs
Other options to secure APIs
While authorization is preferred, and OAuth 2.0 has become the dominant method of enabling strong authorization for APIs, API Management provides several other mechanisms to secure or restrict access between client and gateway (client side) or between gateway and backend (service side). Depending on the organization's requirements, these may be used to supplement OAuth 2.0. Alternatively, configure them independently if the calling applications or backend APIs are legacy or don't yet support OAuth 2.0.
Client side options
Tip
For defense in depth, deploying a web application firewall upstream of the API Management instance is strongly recommended. For example, useAzure Application GatewayorAzure Front Door.
Service side options
Related content
Learn more aboutauthentication and authorizationin the Microsoft identity platform.
Learn how tomitigate OWASP API security threatsusing API Management.
Learn how tobuild a comprehensive API security strategy
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources