Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Plan and deploy Azure Arc-enabled servers
Article
2025-01-24
9 contributors
In this article
Deployment of an IT infrastructure service or business application is a challenge for any company. In order to execute it well and avoid any unwelcome surprises and unplanned costs, you need to thoroughly plan for it to ensure that you're as ready as possible. To plan for deploying Azure Arc-enabled servers at any scale, it should cover the design and deployment criteria that need to be met in order to successfully complete the tasks.
For the deployment to proceed smoothly, your plan should establish a clear understanding of:
Roles and responsibilities.
Inventory of physical servers or virtual machines to verify they meet network and system requirements.
The skill set and training required to enable successful deployment and on-going management.
Acceptance criteria and how you track its success.
Tools or methods to be used to automate the deployments.
A list of identified risks and mitigation plans to avoid delays, disruptions, etc.
A plan to avoid disruption during deployment.
The escalation path when a significant issue occurs.
The purpose of this article is to ensure you are prepared for a successful deployment of Azure Arc-enabled servers across multiple production physical servers or virtual machines in your environment.
To learn more about our at-scale deployment recommendations, you can also refer to this video.
Prerequisites
Consider the following basic requirements when planning your deployment:
Your machines must run asupported operating systemfor the Connected Machine agent.
Your machines must have connectivity from your on-premises network or other cloud environment to resources in Azure, either directly or through a proxy server.
To install and configure the Azure Connected Machine agent, you must have an account with elevated privileges (that is, an administrator or as root) on the machines.
To onboard machines, you must have theAzure Connected Machine OnboardingAzure built-in role.
To read, modify, and delete a machine, you must have theAzure Connected Machine Resource AdministratorAzure built-in role.
For more details, see theprerequisitesandnetwork requirementsfor installing the Connected Machine agent.
Azure subscription and service limits
There are no limits to the number of Azure Arc-enabled servers you can register in any single resource group, subscription, or tenant.
Each Azure Arc-enabled server is associated with a Microsoft Entra object and counts against your directory quota. SeeMicrosoft Entra service limits and restrictionsfor information about the maximum number of objects you can have in a Microsoft Entra directory.
Pilot
Before deploying to all production machines, start by evaluating the deployment process before adopting it broadly in your environment. For a pilot, identify a representative sampling of machines that aren't critical to your companies ability to conduct business. You'll want to be sure to allow enough time to run the pilot and assess its impact: we recommend a minimum of 30 days.
Establish a formal plan describing the scope and details of the pilot. The following is a sample of what a plan should include to help get you started.
Objectives- Describes the business and technical drivers that led to the decision that a pilot is necessary.
Selection criteria- Specifies the criteria used to select which aspects of the solution will be demonstrated via a pilot.
Scope- Describes the scope of the pilot, which includes but not limited to solution components, anticipated schedule, duration of the pilot, and number of machines to target.
Success criteria and metrics- Define the pilot's success criteria and specific measures used to determine level of success.
Training plan- Describes the plan for training system engineers, administrators, etc. who are new to Azure and it services during the pilot.
Transition plan- Describes the strategy and criteria used to guide transition from pilot to production.
Rollback- Describes the procedures for rolling back a pilot to pre-deployment state.
Risks- List all identified risks for conducting the pilot and associated with production deployment.
Phase 1: Build a foundation
In this phase, system engineers or administrators enable the core features in their organization's Azure subscription to start the foundation before enabling machines for management by Azure Arc-enabled servers and other Azure services.
Phase 2: Deploy Azure Arc-enabled servers
Next, we add to the foundation laid in Phase 1 by preparing for anddeploying the Azure Connected Machine agent.
At-scale basic deployment script
At-scale onboarding VMware vSphere Windows Server VMs
At-scale onboarding VMware vSphere Linux VMs
At-scale onboarding AWS EC2 instances using Ansible
Phase 3: Manage and operate
Phase 3 is when administrators or system engineers can enable automation of manual tasks to manage and operate the Connected Machine agent and the machines during their lifecycle.
Next steps
Learn about best practices and design patterns through theAzure Arc landing zone accelerator for hybrid and multicloud.
Learn aboutreconfiguring, upgrading, and removing the Connected Machine agent.
Review troubleshooting information in theagent connection issues troubleshooting guide.
Learn how to simplify deployment with other Azure services like Azure AutomationState Configurationand other supportedAzure VM extensions.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources