Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Score Model
Article
2024-08-28
4 contributors
In this article
This article describes a component in Azure Machine Learning designer.
Use this component to generate predictions using a trained classification or regression model.
How to use
Add theScore Modelcomponent to your pipeline.
Add theScore Modelcomponent to your pipeline.
Attach a trained model and a dataset containing new input data.The data should be in a format compatible with the type of trained model you are using. The schema of the input dataset should also generally match the schema of the data used to train the model.
Attach a trained model and a dataset containing new input data.
The data should be in a format compatible with the type of trained model you are using. The schema of the input dataset should also generally match the schema of the data used to train the model.
Submit the pipeline.
Submit the pipeline.
Results
After you have generated a set of scores usingScore Model:
To generate a set of metrics used for evaluating the model's accuracy (performance), you can connect the scored dataset toEvaluate Model,
Right-click the component and selectVisualizeto see a sample of the results.
The score, or predicted value, can be in many different formats, depending on the model and your input data:
For classification models,Score Modeloutputs a predicted value for the class, as well as the probability of the predicted value.
For regression models,Score Modelgenerates just the predicted numeric value.
Publish scores as a web service
A common use of scoring is to return the output as part of a predictive web service. For more information, seethis tutorialon how to deploy a real-time endpoint based on a pipeline in Azure Machine Learning designer.
Next steps
See theset of components availableto Azure Machine Learning.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources