Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Global Load Balancer
Article
2025-02-20
20 contributors
In this article
Azure Standard Load Balancer supports global load balancing enabling geo-redundant high availability scenarios such as:
Incoming traffic originating from multiple regions.
Instant global failoverto the next optimal regional deployment.
Load distribution across regions to the closest Azure region withultra-low latency.
Ability toscale up/downbehind a single endpoint.
Static anycast global IP address
Client IP preservation
Build on existing load balancersolution with no learning curve
The frontend IP configuration of your global load balancer is static and advertised acrossmost Azure regions.

Note
The backend port of your load balancing rule on global load balancer should match the frontend port of the load balancing rule/inbound nat rule on regional standard load balancer.
Regional redundancy
Configure regional redundancy by seamlessly linking a global load balancer to your existing regional load balancers.
If one region fails, the traffic is routed to the next closest healthy regional load balancer.
The health probe of the global load balancer gathers information about availability of each regional load balancer every 5 seconds. If one regional load balancer drops its availability to 0, global load balancer detects the failure. The regional load balancer is then taken out of rotation.

Ultra-low latency
The geo-proximity load-balancing algorithm is based on the geographic location of your users and your regional deployments.
Traffic started from a client hits the closest participating region and travel through the Microsoft global network backbone to arrive at the closest regional deployment.
For example, you have a global load balancer with standard load balancers in Azure regions:
West US
North Europe
If a flow is started from Seattle, traffic enters West US. This region is the closest participating region from Seattle. The traffic is routed to the closest region load balancer, which is West US.
Azure global load balancer uses geo-proximity load-balancing algorithm for the routing decision.
The configured load distribution mode of the regional load balancers is used for making the final routing decision when multiple regional load balancers are used for geo-proximity.
For more information, seeConfigure the distribution mode for Azure Load Balancer.
Egress traffic follows the routing preference set on the regional load balancers.
Ability to scale up/down behind a single endpoint
When you expose the global endpoint of a global load balancer to customers, you can add or remove regional deployments behind the global endpoint without interruption.
Static anycast global IP address
Global load balancer comes with a static public IP, which ensures the IP address remains the same. Both IPv4 and IPv6 configurations are supported. To learn more about static IP, read morehere.
Client IP Preservation
Global load balancer is a Layer-4 pass-through network load balancer. This pass-through preserves the original IP of the packet. The original IP is available to the code running on the virtual machine. This preservation allows you to apply logic that is specific to an IP address.
Floating IP
Floating IP can be configured at both the global IP level and regional IP level. For more information, visitMultiple frontends for Azure Load Balancer.
It's important to note that floating IP configured on the Azure global Load Balancer operates independently of floating IP configurations on backend regional load balancers. If floating IP is enabled on the global load balancer, the appropriate loopback interface needs to be added to the backend VMs.
Health Probes
Azure global Load Balancer utilizes the health of the backend regional load balancers when deciding where to distribute traffic to. Health checks by global load balancer are done automatically every 5 seconds, given that health probes are set up on their regional load balancer.
Build cross region solution on existing Azure Load Balancer
The backend pool of global load balancer contains one or more regional load balancers.
Add your existing load balancer deployments to a global load balancer for a highly available, global deployment.
Home regions and participating regions
Home regionis where the global load balancer or Public IP Address of Global tier is deployed.
This region doesn't affect how the traffic is routed. If a home region goes down, traffic flow is unaffected.
Central US
East Asia
East US 2
North Europe
Southeast Asia
UK South
US Gov Virginia
West Europe
West US
China North 2
Note
You can only deploy your global load balancer or Public IP in Global tier in one of the listed Home regions.
Aparticipating regionis where the Global public IP of the load balancer is being advertised.
Traffic started by the user travels to the closest participating region through the Microsoft core network.
Global load balancer routes the traffic to the appropriate regional load balancer.

Australia East
Australia Southeast
Central India
Central US
East Asia
East US
East US 2
Japan East
North Central US
North Europe
South Central US
Southeast Asia
UK South
US DoD Central
US DoD East
US Gov Arizona
US Gov Texas
US Gov Virginia
West Central US
West Europe
West US
West US 2
Note
The backend regional load balancers can be deployed in any publicly available Azure Region and isn't limited to just participating regions.
Limitations of global load balancer
Global frontend IP configurations are public only. An internal frontend is currently not supported.
Global frontend IP configurations are public only. An internal frontend is currently not supported.
Private or internal load balancer can't be added to the backend pool of a global load balancer
Private or internal load balancer can't be added to the backend pool of a global load balancer
NAT64 translation isn't supported at this time. The frontend and backend IPs must be of the same type (v4 or v6).
NAT64 translation isn't supported at this time. The frontend and backend IPs must be of the same type (v4 or v6).
UDP traffic on port 3 isn't supported on global load balancer
UDP traffic on port 3 isn't supported on global load balancer
Outbound rules aren't supported on global load balancer. For outbound connections, utilizeoutbound ruleson the regional load balancer orNAT gateway.
Outbound rules aren't supported on global load balancer. For outbound connections, utilizeoutbound ruleson the regional load balancer orNAT gateway.
Regional load balancers can't be upgraded to the global tier. Only new load balancers can be created as the global tier.
Regional load balancers can't be upgraded to the global tier. Only new load balancers can be created as the global tier.
Pricing and SLA
Global load balancer shares theSLAof standard load balancer.
Next steps
SeeTutorial: Create a global load balancer using the Azure portalto create a global load balancer.
Learn more aboutglobal load balancer.
Learn more aboutAzure Load Balancer.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources