Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Quickstart: Install and Configure Terraform
Article
2023-06-13
2 contributors
In this article
Terraformenables the definition, preview, and deployment of cloud infrastructure. Using Terraform, you create configuration files usingHCL syntax. The HCL syntax allows you to specify the cloud provider - such as Azure - and the elements that make up your cloud infrastructure. After you create your configuration files, you create anexecution planthat allows you to preview your infrastructure changes before they're deployed. Once you verify the changes, you apply the execution plan to deploy the infrastructure.
Configure in Azure Cloud Shell with Bash
Configure in Azure Cloud Shell with PowerShell
Configure in Windows with Bash
Configure in Windows with PowerShell
Prerequisites
Azure subscription: If you don't have an Azure subscription, create afree accountbefore you begin.
Configure in Azure Cloud Shell with Bash
Azure Cloud Shell includes Terraform and automatically updates to the latest version of Terraform. However, the updates come within a couple of weeks of release. The following article shows you how to download and install the current version of Terraform using Bash within the Cloud Shell environment.
Configure Terraform in Azure Cloud Shell with Bash
Configure in Azure Cloud Shell with PowerShell
Azure Cloud Shell includes Terraform and automatically updates to the latest version of Terraform. However, the updates come within a couple of weeks of release. The following article shows you how to download and install the current version of Terraform using PowerShell within the Cloud Shell environment.
Configure Terraform in Azure Cloud Shell with PowerShell
Configure in Windows with Bash
The following article shows you how to install and test Terraform in Windows using a Bash emulator.
Configure Terraform in Windows with Bash
Configure in Windows with PowerShell
The following article shows you how to install and test Terraform in Windows using PowerShell.
Configure Terraform in Windows with PowerShell
Troubleshoot Terraform on Azure
Troubleshoot common problems when using Terraform on Azure
Next steps
Create Azure resource group
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources