Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Add, run, and update inline tests
Article
2025-01-30
9 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
Similar totask checklists, you can quickly define inline tests, or a set of manual tests cases, for a backlog item from your board. Not only can you add tests, you can run them and update their status. If you're new to working with the board, seeKanban board overview. If you're new to testing, seeExploratory and manual testing scenarios and capabilities.
Tests that you create from the board automatically get linked to the user story or backlog item.
Prerequisites
Open your board from the web portal
To view your board, open your project from a web browser and choose (1)Work, (2)Boards, and then (3) select the team's board from the selector.To choose another team's board, open the selector and select a different team or choose theBrowse all team boardsoption. Or, you can enter a keyword in the search box to filter the list of team backlogs for the project.TipChoose thestar icon to favorite a team board. Favorited artifacts (favorited icon) appear at the top of the team selector list.
To view your board, open your project from a web browser and choose (1)Work, (2)Boards, and then (3) select the team's board from the selector.

To choose another team's board, open the selector and select a different team or choose theBrowse all team boardsoption. Or, you can enter a keyword in the search box to filter the list of team backlogs for the project.

Tip
Choose thestar icon to favorite a team board. Favorited artifacts (favorited icon) appear at the top of the team selector list.
Add inline tests
To start adding tests, open the menu for the work item.Adding inline tests is the same as adding test cases to a test suite. A default test plan and test suite automatically get created under which the manual test cases are grouped.For example, a test suite is created for each user story, and all inline tests get added to that suite. In the following example, test suite 152 is highlighted which has three manual tests defined with IDs of 280, 281, and 282.For more information, seePlan your tests.
To start adding tests, open the menu for the work item.

Adding inline tests is the same as adding test cases to a test suite. A default test plan and test suite automatically get created under which the manual test cases are grouped.
For example, a test suite is created for each user story, and all inline tests get added to that suite. In the following example, test suite 152 is highlighted which has three manual tests defined with IDs of 280, 281, and 282.

For more information, seePlan your tests.
If you have many tests to add, keep entering each title and selectEnter.To add details to the test case, open it. You can select the title, double-click the inline item, or open the context menu and choose Open.
If you have many tests to add, keep entering each title and selectEnter.
To add details to the test case, open it. You can select the title, double-click the inline item, or open the context menu and choose Open.
SeeCreate manual teststo learn more about defining tests.
Before running the test, you must add details.
Run the inline test
Run the test by selectingRun test from theactions menu for the inline test.
Microsoft Test Runner starts in a new browser instance. For more information, seeRun manual tests.
Update the status of an inline test from the action menu
You can update the status of the test from theactions menu.
Expand or collapse inline tests
When you first open a board, you're presented with an unexpanded view of checklists.

Hover over the inline test summary to show a test summary.

Select the inline test summary to expand a collapsed set of tests. Select the same summary to collapse an expanded list.

Copy or reparent a test
To reparent a test, drag and drop the test to a different user story.

This action automatically changes the linked relationship of the test and points to the new user story.
To create a copy of a test to add to a different user story, select the test, select the CTRL key, and then drag and drop the test onto the user story card.
Link a test case to a work item
When you link a test case to a work item using the "Tested By" link type, the board reflects the test status of the linked test case. However, if the requirement-based suite has multiple configurations, the board only shows the test outcome for the default configuration.
Next steps
Install the Test & Feedback extension
Related articles
Create manual tests.
Disable this feature from the common configurations dialog.
Add tasks or child items as checklists
Create a new branch, drive Git development
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources