Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft Defender for Cloud overview
Article
2025-02-25
15 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Defender for Cloud is a cloud-native application protection platform (CNAPP) that includes security measures and practices designed to protect cloud-based applications from various cyber threats and vulnerabilities. Defender for Cloud includes:
A development security operations (DevSecOps) solution that unifies security management at the code level across multicloud and multi-pipeline environments
A cloud security posture management (CSPM) solution that identifies actions to prevent breaches
A cloud workload protection platform (CWPP) with protections for servers, containers, storage, databases, and other workloads

Note
For Defender for Cloud pricing information, see thepricing page.
The Microsoft 365 Defender portal helps security teams investigate attacks on cloud resources, devices, and identities. Microsoft 365 Defender provides an overview of attacks, including suspicious and malicious events in cloud environments. Microsoft 365 Defender achieves this by correlating all alerts and incidents, including cloud alerts and incidents.
Learn more about theintegration between Microsoft Defender for Cloud and Microsoft Defender XDR.
Secure cloud applications
Defender for Cloud helps you incorporate good security practices early in the software development process, or DevSecOps. You can protect your code management environments and code pipelines, and get insights into your development environment security posture from a single location. Defender for Cloud enables security teams to manage DevOps security across multi-pipeline environments.
Today's applications require security awareness at the code, infrastructure, and runtime levels to ensure that deployed applications are hardened against attacks.
Improve your security posture
The security of your cloud and on-premises resources relies on proper configuration and deployment. Defenders for Cloud recommendations identify steps to secure your environment.
Defender for Cloud includes free Foundational CSPM capabilities. Enable advanced CSPM capabilities with the Defender CSPM plan.
Protect cloud workloads
Proactive security principles require implementing security practices to protect your workloads from threats. Cloud workload protections (CWP) provide workload-specific recommendations to guide you to the right security controls to protect your workloads.
When your environment is threatened, security alerts immediately indicate the nature and severity of the threat so you can plan your response. After identifying a threat in your environment, respond quickly to limit the risk to your resources.
Important
As of August 1 2023, customers with an existing subscription to Defender for DNS can continue to use the service, but new subscribers will receive alerts about suspicious DNS activity as part of Defender for Servers P2.
Learn More
For more information about Defender for Cloud and how it works, see:
Astep-by-step walkthroughof Defender for Cloud
An interview about Defender for Cloud with an expert in cybersecurity inLessons Learned from the Field
Microsoft Defender for Cloud - Use cases
Microsoft Defender for Cloud PoC Series - Microsoft Defender for Containers
Learn howMicrosoft Defender for Cloud provides data security
Next steps
Enable Microsoft Defender plans
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources