Accelerate your ERP transformation on Azure with the SAP RISE Acceleration Program.
SAP on the Microsoft Cloud
Overview
Products
Impact
Resources
Customer stories
Use cases
Solutions
Next steps
Accelerate business transformation and innovation
RISE with SAPBring SAP to Microsoft Azure, where you can innovate with services from both SAP BTP and Microsoft.Learn more
RISE with SAP
RISE with SAP
Preferred cloud partnerChoose the only cloud provider with over 30 years of close collaboration and co-innovation with SAP.Learn more
Preferred cloud partner
Preferred cloud partner
Integrate SAP BTPStreamline operations with easy access to high-value SAP Business Technology Platform (BTP) services in Azure.Learn more
Integrate SAP BTP
Integrate SAP BTP
Enhanced securityGet multi-layer cloud security for both SAP and non-SAP workloads.Learn more
Enhanced security
Enhanced security
Increased productivityIntegrate SAP with the Microsoft Cloud and Copilot to enhance productivity.Learn more
Increased productivity
Increased productivity
AI-enriched insightsSurface rich insights and improve decision-making with a unified analytics and AI platform.Learn more
AI-enriched insights
AI-enriched insights
Innovate in the cloud faster
Microsoft Fabric
M-series virtual machines
Microsoft Sentinel
Azure NetApp Files
Azure Open AI Service
Microsoft 365
Measurable ROI with RISE with SAP and Microsoft
Expanded SAP BTP and AI services on Azure
200 Azure services to innovate on SAP apps and data
118% ROI over three years1
Get the latest resources







Accelerate SAP adoption
AI and SAP
Forrester TEI study
Maximize SAP investments
Learn from experts
Enhance your skills
See how customers are innovating with SAP






“RISE with SAP on Azure helped us move our experts and resources into areas where they can add the most value, which was a game-changer.”
“The combination of RISE with SAP and Azure simplified everything. It changed our mentality from being an operator of the cloud to being a consumer of the cloud.”
“One significant improvement is the faster response time. It used to take a long time to extract a large amount of data, but with the upgraded S/4HANA, it can be processed immediately.”
“We were able to speed up lengthy transactions by 10 and even 25 times with SAP on Azure. Something that previously took 3 hours now takes 5 or 10 minutes.”
“Migrating Unilever’s services to the cloud has enabled us to unlock instant infinite capacity that increases our potential to relentlessly experiment and innovate.”
“Now that we’re moving to RISE with SAP on Azure, we bring in external data to drive more predictive analytics to help our teams spend more time making decisions instead of pulling data together.”
Modernize your business with SAP
Automate processes
Enhance security
Unify your data
Improve productivity
Protect workloads
Accelerate development
Integrate SAP with the Microsoft Cloud



Build and modernize intelligent apps
AI for data analytics
Migrate to innovate
Choose the Azure account that's right for you
Contact Sales
Access expert guidance
Connect with a partner
[1]To understand benefits, costs, and risks, Forrester interviewed four representatives with experience using SAP on the Microsoft Cloud. For the purposes of this study, Forrester aggregated the results from these customers into a single composite organization.



