Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Prepare to deploy Azure Communications Gateway
Article
2024-04-26
12 contributors
In this article
Important
The Azure Communications Gateway service will retire on October 30, 2025, and no new customers are being onboarded. To prevent any service disruption, please transition to anotherMicrosoft Teams Direct Routing certified Session Border Controller (SBC)solution before October 30, 2025.
This article guides you through each of the tasks you need to complete before you can start to deploy Azure Communications Gateway. For Operator Connect and Teams Phone Mobile, successful deployments depend on the state of your Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile environments.
The following sections describe the information you need to collect and the decisions you need to make prior to deploying Azure Communications Gateway.
Prerequisites
Important
You must be a telecommunications operator to use Azure Communications Gateway.
For Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile, you must also have signed an Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile agreement with Microsoft. For more information on these programs, seeOperator ConnectorTeams Phone Mobile.
For Zoom Phone Cloud Peering, you must also have started the onboarding process with Zoom to become a Zoom Phone Cloud Peering provider. For more information on Cloud Peering, seeZoom's Cloud Peering information.
Important
You must fully understand the onboarding process for your chosen communications service and any dependencies introduced by the onboarding process.
Allow sufficient elapsed time for the deployment and onboarding process. For example, you might need wait up to two weeks for a new Azure Communications Gateway resource to be provisioned before you can connect it to your network.
You must own globally routable numbers for two types of testing:
Integration testing by your staff during deployment and integration
Service verification (continuous call testing) by your chosen communication services
The following table describes how many numbers you need to allocate.
Important
Service verification numbers must be usable throughout the lifetime of your deployment.
If you want to set up a lab deployment, you must have deployed a standard deployment or be about to deploy one. You can't use a lab deployment as a standalone Azure Communications Gateway deployment.
Arrange onboarding
You need a Microsoft onboarding team to deploy Azure Communications Gateway. Azure Communications Gateway includes an onboarding program calledIncluded Benefits. If you're not eligible for Included Benefits or you require more support, discuss your requirements with your Microsoft sales representative.
The Operator Connect and Teams Phone Mobile programs also require an onboarding partner who manages the necessary changes to the Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile environments and coordinates with Microsoft Teams on your behalf. The Azure Communications Gateway Included Benefits project team fulfills this role, but you can choose a different onboarding partner to coordinate with Microsoft Teams on your behalf.
Ensure you have a suitable support plan
We strongly recommend that you have a support plan that includes technical support, such asMicrosoft Unified Support.
Choose the Azure tenant to use
We recommend that you use an existing Microsoft Entra tenant for Azure Communications Gateway, because using an existing tenant uses your existing identities for fully integrated authentication. If you need to manage identities separately from the rest of your organization, or to set up different permissions for the Number Management Portal for different Azure Communications Gateway resources, create a new dedicated tenant first.
The Operator Connect and Teams Phone Mobile environments inherit identities and configuration permissions from your Microsoft Entra tenant through a Microsoft application called Project Synergy. You must add this application to your Microsoft Entra tenant as part ofConnect Azure Communications Gateway to Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile(if your tenant does not already contain this application).
Important
For Operator Connect and Teams Phone Mobile, production deployments and lab deployments must connect to the same Microsoft Entra tenant. Microsoft Teams configuration for your tenant shows configuration for your lab deployments and production deployments together.
Get access to Azure Communications Gateway for your Azure subscription
Access to Azure Communications Gateway is restricted. When you've completed the previous steps in this article:
Contact your onboarding team and ask them to enable your subscription. If you don't already have an onboarding team, contact azcog-enablement@microsoft.com with your Azure subscription ID and contact details.
Wait for confirmation that Azure Communications Gateway is enabled before moving on to the next step.
Create a network design
Decide how Azure Communications Gateway should connect to your network. We recommend Microsoft Azure Peering Service Voice (sometimes called MAPS Voice). For more information about your options, seeConnectivity for Azure Communications Gateway. If you're planning to use Azure Communications Gateway with VNet injection (preview), complete theprerequisites for deploying Azure Communications Gateway with VNet injection.
For Teams Phone Mobile and Azure Operator Call Protection Preview, you must decide how your network should determine whether a call involves a relevant subscriber and therefore route the call correctly. You can:
Use Azure Communications Gateway's integrated Mobile Control Point (MCP).
Connect to an on-premises version of Mobile Control Point (MCP) from Metaswitch.
Use other routing capabilities in your core network.
For more information on these options for Teams Phone Mobile, seeCall control integration for Teams Phone MobileandMobile Control Point in Azure Communications Gateway.
The connection to Azure Communications Gateway for Azure Operator Call Protection is over SIPREC.  Azure Communications Gateway takes the role of the SIPREC Session Recording Server (SRS).  An element in your network, typically a session border controller (SBC), is set up as a SIPREC Session Recording Client (SRC).
If you need to support emergency calls from Microsoft Teams or Zoom clients, read about emergency calling with your chosen communications service:
Microsoft Teams Direct Routing
Operator Connect and Teams Phone Mobile
Zoom Phone Cloud Peering
Important
You must not route emergency calls from your network to Azure Communications Gateway.
Connect your network to Azure
Configure connections between your network and Azure:
To configure Microsoft Azure Peering Service Voice (sometimes called MAPS Voice), follow the instructions inInternet peering for Peering Service Voice walkthrough.
To configure ExpressRoute Microsoft Peering, follow the instructions inTutorial: Configure peering for ExpressRoute circuit.
Collect basic information for deploying an Azure Communications Gateway
Collect all of the values in the following table for the Azure Communications Gateway resource.
-
999
+<country-code><emergency-number>
+44999
Collect configuration values for service regions
Collect all of the values in the following table for both service regions in which you want to deploy Azure Communications Gateway.
Note
Lab deployments have one Azure region and connect to one site in your network.
Collect configuration values for each communications service
Collect the values for the communications services that you're planning to support.
Important
Some options apply to multiple services, as shown byOptions common to multiple communications servicesin the following tables. You must choose configuration that is suitable for all the services that you plan to support.
For Microsoft Teams Direct Routing:
For Operator Connect:
For Teams Phone Mobile:
For Zoom Phone Cloud Peering:
There are no configuration options required for Azure Operator Call Protection Preview.
Collect values for service verification numbers
Collect all of the values in the following table for all the service verification numbers required by Azure Communications Gateway.
For Operator Connect and Teams Phone Mobile:
For Zoom Phone Cloud Peering:
Microsoft Teams Direct Routing and Azure Operator Call Protection Preview don't require service verification numbers.
Decide if you want tags for Azure resources
Resource naming and tagging is useful for resource management. It enables your organization to locate and keep track of resources associated with specific teams or workloads and also enables you to more accurately track the consumption of cloud resources by business area and team.
If you believe tagging would be useful for your organization, design your naming and tagging conventions following the information in theResource naming and tagging decision guide.
Next step
Deploy an Azure Communications Gateway resource and connect it to your networks
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources