Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Jupyter notebooks with Microsoft Sentinel hunting capabilities
Article
2024-04-03
19 contributors
Applies to: Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal, Microsoft Sentinel in the Azure portal
In this article
Jupyter notebooks combine full programmability with a huge collection of libraries for machine learning, visualization, and data analysis. These attributes make Jupyter a compelling tool for security investigation and hunting.
The foundation of Microsoft Sentinel is the data store; it combines high-performance querying, dynamic schema, and scales to massive data volumes. The Azure portal and all Microsoft Sentinel tools use a common API to access this data store. The same API is also available for external tools such asJupyternotebooks and Python.
Important
Microsoft Sentinel is generally available within Microsoft's unified security operations platform in the Microsoft Defender portal, including for customers without Microsoft Defender XDR or an E5 license. For more information, seeMicrosoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal.
When to use Jupyter notebooks
While many common tasks can be carried out in the portal, Jupyter extends the scope of what you can do with this data.
For example, use notebooks to:
Perform analyticsthat aren't provided out-of-the-box in Microsoft Sentinel, such as some Python machine learning features
Create data visualizationsthat aren't provided out-of-the-box in Microsoft Sentinel, such as custom timelines and process trees
Integrate data sourcesoutside of Microsoft Sentinel, such as an on-premises data set.
We integrated the Jupyter experience into the Azure portal, making it easy for you to create and run notebooks to analyze your data. TheKqlmagiclibrary provides the glue that lets you take Kusto Query Language (KQL) queries from Microsoft Sentinel and run them directly inside a notebook.
Several notebooks, developed by some of Microsoft's security analysts, are packaged with Microsoft Sentinel:
Some of these notebooks are built for a specific scenario and can be used as-is.
Others are intended as samples to illustrate techniques and features that you can copy or adapt for use in your own notebooks.
Import other notebooks from theMicrosoft Sentinel GitHub repository.
How Jupyter notebooks work
Notebooks have two components:
The browser-based interface, where you enter and run queries and code, and where the results of the execution are displayed.
Akernelthat is responsible for parsing and executing the code itself.
The Microsoft Sentinel notebook's kernel runs on an Azure virtual machine (VM). The VM instance can support running many notebooks at once. If your notebooks include complex machine learning models, several licensing options exist to use more powerful virtual machines.
Understand Python packages
The Microsoft Sentinel notebooks use many popular Python libraries such aspandas,matplotlib,bokeh, and others. There are a great many other Python packages for you to choose from, covering areas such as:
Visualizations and graphics
Data processing and analysis
Statistics and numerical computing
Machine learning and deep learning
To avoid having to type or paste complex and repetitive code into notebook cells, most Python notebooks rely on third-party libraries calledpackages. To use a package in a notebook, you need to both install and import the package. Azure Machine Learning Compute has most common packages pre-installed. Make sure that you import the package, or the relevant part of the package, such as a module, file, function, or class.
Microsoft Sentinel notebooks use a Python package calledMSTICPy, which is a collection of cybersecurity tools for data retrieval, analysis, enrichment, and visualization.
MSTICPy tools are designed specifically to help with creating notebooks for hunting and investigation and we're actively working on new features and improvements. For more information, see:
MSTIC Jupyter and Python Security Tools documentation
Get started with Jupyter notebooks and MSTICPy in Microsoft Sentinel
Advanced configurations for Jupyter notebooks and MSTICPy in Microsoft Sentinel
Find notebooks
In Microsoft Sentinel, selectNotebooksto see notebooks that Microsoft Sentinel provides. Learn more about using notebooks in threat hunting and investigation by exploring notebook templates likeCredential Scan on Azure Log AnalyticsandGuided Investigation - Process Alerts.
For more notebooks built by Microsoft or contributed from the community, go toMicrosoft Sentinel GitHub repository. Use notebooks shared in the Microsoft Sentinel GitHub repository as useful tools, illustrations, and code samples that you can use when developing your own notebooks.
TheSample-Notebooksdirectory includes sample notebooks that are saved with data that you can use to show intended output.
TheSample-Notebooksdirectory includes sample notebooks that are saved with data that you can use to show intended output.
Sample-Notebooks
TheHowTosdirectory includes notebooks that describe concepts such as setting your default Python version, creating Microsoft Sentinel bookmarks from a notebook, and more.
TheHowTosdirectory includes notebooks that describe concepts such as setting your default Python version, creating Microsoft Sentinel bookmarks from a notebook, and more.
HowTos
Manage access to Microsoft Sentinel notebooks
To use Jupyter notebooks in Microsoft Sentinel, you must first have the right permissions, depending on your user role.
While you can run Microsoft Sentinel notebooks in JupyterLab or Jupyter classic, in Microsoft Sentinel, notebooks are run on anAzure Machine Learningplatform. To run notebooks in Microsoft Sentinel, you must have appropriate access to both Microsoft Sentinel workspace and anAzure Machine Learning workspace.
Submit feedback for a notebook
Submit feedback, requests for features, bug reports, or improvements to existing notebooks. Go to theMicrosoft Sentinel  GitHub repositoryto create an issue, or fork and upload a contribution.
Related content
Hunt for security threats with Jupyter notebooks
Get started with Jupyter notebooks and MSTICPy in Microsoft Sentinel
Proactively hunt for threats
Keep track of data during hunting with Microsoft Sentinel
For blogs, videos, and other resources, see:
Create your first Microsoft Sentinel notebook(Blog series)
Tutorial: Microsoft Sentinel notebooks - Getting started(Video)
Tutorial: Edit and run Jupyter notebooks without leaving Azure Machine Learning studio(Video)
Detect Credential Leaks using Azure Sentinel Notebooks(Video)
Webinar: Microsoft Sentinel notebooks fundamentals(Video)
Jupyter, msticpy, and Microsoft Sentinel
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources