Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is a network security perimeter?
Article
2025-04-01
6 contributors
In this article
Network security perimeter allows organizations to define a logical network isolation boundary for PaaS resources (for example, Azure Storage account and SQL Database server) that are deployed outside your organization’s virtual networks. It restricts public network access to PaaS resources within the perimeter; access can be exempted by using explicit access rules for public inbound and outbound.
For access patterns involving traffic from virtual networks to PaaS resources, seeWhat is Azure Private Link?.
Features of a network security perimeter include:
Resource to resource access communication within perimeter members, preventing data exfiltration to nonauthorized destinations.
External public access management with explicit rules for PaaS resources associated with the perimeter.
Access logs for audit and compliance.
Unified experience across PaaS resources.

Important
Network Security Perimeter is in public preview and available in all Azure public cloud regions.
This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads.
Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities.
For more information, seeSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews.
Components of a network security perimeter
A network security perimeter includes the following components:
Note
For organizational and informational safety, don't include any personally identifiable or sensitive data in the network security perimeter rules or other network security perimeter configurations.
Network security perimeter properties
When creating a network security perimeter, you can specify the following properties:
Access modes in network security perimeter
Administrators add PaaS resources to a perimeter by creating resource associations. These associations can be made in two access modes. The access modes are:
Learn more on transitioning from learning mode to enforced mode inTransitioning to a network security perimeterarticle.
Why use a network security perimeter?
Network security perimeter provides a secure perimeter for communication of PaaS services deployed outside the virtual network. It allows you to control network access to Azure PaaS resources. Some of the common use cases include:
Create a secure boundary around  PaaS resources.
Prevent data exfiltration by associating PaaS resources  to the perimeter.
Enable access rules to grant access outside the secure perimeter.
Manage access rules for all the PaaS resources within the network security perimeter in a single pane of glass.
Enable diagnostic settings to generate access logs of PaaS resources within the perimeter for Audit and Compliance.
Allow private endpoint traffic without the need for explicit access rules.
How does a network security perimeter work?
When a network security perimeter is created and the PaaS resources are associated with the perimeter in enforced mode, all public traffic is denied by default thus preventing data exfiltration outside the perimeter.
Access rules can be used to approve public inbound and outbound traffic outside the perimeter. Public inbound access can be approved using Network and Identity attributes of the client such as source IP addresses, subscriptions. Public outbound access can be approved using FQDNs (Fully Qualified Domain Names) of the external destinations.
For example, upon creating a network security perimeter and associating a set of PaaS resources with the perimeter like Azure Key Vault and SQL DB in enforced mode, all incoming and outgoing public traffic is denied to these PaaS resources by default. To allow any access outside the perimeter, necessary access rules can be created. Within the same perimeter, profiles can be created to group PaaS resources with similar set of inbound and outbound access requirements.
Onboarded private link resources
A network security perimeter-aware private link resource is a PaaS resource that can be associated with a network security perimeter. Currently the list of onboarded private link resources are as follows:
Note
Refer to the respective private link resource documentation for information on currently unsupported scenarios.
Supported access rules' types
Network security perimeter supports the following access rule types:
Limitations of a network security perimeter
Logging limitations
Network security perimeter is currently available in all Azure public cloud regions. However, while enabling access logs for network security perimeter, the Log Analytics workspace to be associated with the network security perimeter needs to be located in one of the Azure Monitor supported regions.
Note
For PaaS resource logs, useLog Analytics Workspace, Storage or Event Hubas the log destination associated to the same perimeter as the PaaS resource.
Scale limitations
Network security perimeter functionality can be used to support deployments of PaaS resources with common public network controls with following scale limitations:
Other limitations
Network security perimeter has other limitations as follows:
{resourceName}-{perimeter-guid}
Note
Refer to individual PaaS documentation for respective limitations for each service.
Next steps
Create a network security perimeter in the Azure portal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources