Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Text Analytics for health?
Article
2025-02-17
5 contributors
In this article
Important
Text Analytics for health is a capability provided “AS IS” and “WITH ALL FAULTS.” Text Analytics for health is not intended or made available for use as a medical device, clinical support, diagnostic tool, or other technology intended to be used in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease or other conditions, and no license or right is granted by Microsoft to use this capability for such purposes. This capability is not designed or intended to be implemented or deployed as a substitute for professional medical advice or healthcare opinion, diagnosis, treatment, or the clinical judgment of a healthcare professional, and should not be used as such. The customer is solely responsible for any use of Text Analytics for health. The customer must separately license any and all source vocabularies it intends to use under the terms set for thatUMLS Metathesaurus License Agreement Appendixor any future equivalent link. The customer is responsible for ensuring compliance with those license terms, including any geographic or other applicable restrictions.
Text Analytics for health now allows extraction of Social Determinants of Health (SDOH) and ethnicity mentions in text. This capability may not cover all potential SDOH and does not derive inferences based on SDOH or ethnicity (for example, substance use information is surfaced, but substance abuse is not inferred). All decisions leveraging outputs of the Text Analytics for health that impact individuals or resource allocation (including, but not limited to, those related to billing, human resources, or treatment managing care) should be made with human oversight and not be based solely on the findings of the model. The purpose of the SDOH and ethnicity extraction capability is to help providers improve health outcomes and it should not be used to stigmatize or draw negative inferences about the users or consumers of SDOH data, or patient populations beyond the stated purpose of helping providers improving health outcomes.
Text Analytics for health is one of the prebuilt features offered byAzure AI Language. It is a cloud-based API service that applies machine-learning intelligence to extract and label relevant medical information from a variety of unstructured texts such as doctor's notes, discharge summaries, clinical documents, and electronic health records.
Tip
Try out Text Analytics for healthin Azure AI Foundry portal, where you canutilize a currently existing Language Studio resource or create a new Azure AI Foundry resourcein order to use this service.
This documentation contains the following types of articles:
Thequickstart articleprovides a short tutorial that guides you with making your first request to the service.
Thehow-to guidescontain detailed instructions on how to make calls to the service using the hosted API or using the on-premises Docker container.
Theconceptual articlesprovide in-depth information on each of the service's features, named entity recognition, relation extraction, entity linking, and assertion detection.
Text Analytics for health features
Text Analytics for health performs four key functions which are named entity recognition, relation extraction, entity linking, and assertion detection, all with a single API call.
Named Entity Recognition
Relation Extraction
Entity Linking
Assertion Detection
Named entity recognition is used to perform a semantic extraction of words and phrases mentioned from unstructured text that are associated with any of thesupported entity types, such as diagnosis, medication name, symptom/sign, or age.

Relation extraction is used to identify meaningful connections between concepts mentioned in text that are associated with any of thesupported relations, such as the "time of condition" relation, which connects a condition name with a time.

Entity linking is used to disambiguate the extracted entities by associating them with preferred names and codes from the biomedical vocabularies supported by theUnified Medical Language System (UMLS) Metathesaurus.

Assertion detectionis used to preserve the meaning of medical content by   adding contextual modifiers to the extracted entities using these categories:
Certainty
Conditionality
Association
Temporality

Text Analytics for health can receive unstructured text in English, German, French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, and Hebrew.
Additionally, Text Analytics for health can return the processed output using the Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) structure which enables the service's integration with other electronic health systems.
Usage scenarios
Text Analytics for health can be used in multiple scenarios across a variety of industries.
Some common customer motivations for using Text Analytics for health include:
Assisting and automating the processing of medical documents by proper medical coding to ensure accurate care and billing.
Increasing the efficiency of analyzing healthcare data to help drive the success of value-based care models similar to Medicare.
Minimizing healthcare provider effort by automating the aggregation of key patient data for trend and pattern monitoring.
Facilitating and supporting the adoption of HL7 standards for improved exchange, integration, sharing, retrieval, and delivery of electronic health information in all healthcare services.
Example use cases: 
Get started with Text Analytics for health
To use Text Analytics for health, you submit raw unstructured text for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no additional customization to the model used on your data. There are two ways to use Text Analytics for health:
Input requirements and service limits
Text Analytics for health is designed to receive unstructured text for analysis. For more information, seedata and service limits.
Text Analytics for health works with a variety of input languages. For more information,  seelanguage support.
Reference documentation and code samples
As you use this feature in your applications, see the following reference documentation and samples for Azure AI Language:
Responsible use of AI
An AI system includes the technology, the people who will use it, the people who will be affected by it, and the environment in which it is deployed. Read thetransparency note for Text Analytics for healthto learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems. You can also refer to the following articles for more information:
Transparency note for Azure AI Language
Integration and responsible use
Data, privacy, and security
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources