Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Quotas, virtual machine size restrictions, and region availability in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Article
2025-04-17
21 contributors
In this article
All Azure services set default limits and quotas for resources and features, including usage restrictions for certain virtual machine (VM) SKUs.
This article details the default resource limits for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) resources and the availability of AKS in Azure regions.
Service quotas and limits
1To request an increase of the quota limit,create a support request. Free Trial and Azure for Students subscriptions are not eligible for limit or quota increases. If you have a Free Trial or Azure for Students subscription, you can upgrade to a pay-as-you-go subscription.2Windows Server containers must use Azure CNI networking plug-in. Kubenet isn't supported for Windows Server containers.
Throttling limits on AKS resource provider APIs
AKS uses thetoken bucketthrottling algorithm to limit certain AKSresource providerAPIs. This ensures the performance of the service and promotes fair usage of the service for all customers.
The buckets have a fixed size (also known as a burst rate) and refill over time at a fixed rate (also konwn as a sustained rate). Each throttling limit is in effect at the regional level for the specified resource in that region. For example, in the below table, a Subscription can call ListManagedClusters a maximum of 60 times (burst rate) at once for each ResourceGroup, but can continue to make 1 call every second thereafter (sustained rate).
Note
The ManagedClusters and AgentPools buckets are counted separately for the same AKS cluster.
If a request is throttled, the request will return HTTP response code429(Too Many Requests) and the error code will show asThrottledin the response. Each throttled request includes aRetry-Afterin the HTTP response header with the interval to wait before retrying, in seconds. Clients that use a bursty API call pattern should ensure that the Retry-After can be handled appropriately. To learn more about Retry-After, please see thefollowing article. Specifically, AKS will usedelay-secondsto specify the retry.
429
Throttled
Retry-After
delay-seconds
Provisioned infrastructure
All other network, compute, and storage limitations apply to the provisioned infrastructure. For the relevant limits, seeAzure subscription and service limits.
Important
When you upgrade an AKS cluster, extra resources are temporarily consumed. These resources include available IP addresses in a virtual network subnet or virtual machine vCPU quota.
For Windows Server containers, you can perform an upgrade operation to apply the latest node updates. If you don't have the available IP address space or vCPU quota to handle these temporary resources, the cluster upgrade process will fail. For more information on the Windows Server node upgrade process, seeUpgrade a node pool in AKS.
Supported VM sizes
The list of supported VM sizes in AKS is evolving with the release of new VM SKUs in Azure. Please follow theAKS release notesto stay informed of new supported SKUs.
Restricted VM sizes
Each node in an AKS cluster contains a fixed amount of compute resources such as vCPU and memory. Due to the required compute resources needed to run Kubernetes correctly, certain VM SKU sizes are restricted by default in AKS. These restrictions are to ensure that pods can be scheduled and function correctly on these nodes.
User nodepools
For user nodepools, VM sizes with fewer than two vCPUs and two GBs of RAM (memory) may not be used.
System nodepools
For system nodepools, VM sizes with fewer than two vCPUs and four GBs of RAM (memory) may not be used. To ensure that the requiredkube-systempods and your applications can reliably be scheduled, it is recommonded tonot use anyB series VMsandAv1 series VMs.
For more information on VM types and their compute resources, seeSizes for virtual machines in Azure.
Supported container image sizes
AKS doesn't set a limit on the container image size. However, it's important to understand that the larger the container image, the higher the memory demand. This could potentially exceed resource limits or the overall available memory of worker nodes. By default, memory for VM size Standard_DS2_v2 for an AKS cluster is set to 7 GiB.
When a container image is very large (1 TiB or more), kubelet might not be able to pull it from your container registry to a node due to lack of disk space.
Region availability
For the latest list of where you can deploy and run clusters, seeAKS region availability.
Cluster configuration presets in the Azure portal
When you create a cluster using the Azure portal, you can choose a preset configuration to quickly customize based on your scenario. You can modify any of the preset values at any time.
Next steps
You can increase certain default limits and quotas. If your resource supports an increase, request the increase through anAzure support request(forIssue type, selectQuota).
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources