Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Microsoft Sentinel?
Article
2024-05-21
15 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Sentinel is a scalable, cloud-native security information and event management (SIEM) that delivers an intelligent and comprehensive solution for SIEM and security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR). Microsoft Sentinel provides cyberthreat detection, investigation, response, and proactive hunting, with a bird's-eye view across your enterprise.
Microsoft Sentinel also natively incorporates proven Azure services, like Log Analytics and Logic Apps, and enriches your investigation and detection with AI. It uses both Microsoft's threat intelligence stream and also enables you to bring your own threat intelligence.
Use Microsoft Sentinel to alleviate the stress of increasingly sophisticated attacks, increasing volumes of alerts, and long resolution time frames. This article highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel.
Important
Microsoft Sentinel is generally available within Microsoft's unified security operations platform in the Microsoft Defender portal, including for customers without Microsoft Defender XDR or an E5 license. For more information, seeMicrosoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal.
Microsoft Sentinel inherits the Azure Monitortamper-proofing and immutabilitypractices. While Azure Monitor is an append-only data platform, it includes provisions to delete data for compliance purposes.
This service supportsAzure Lighthouse, which lets service providers sign in to their own tenant to manage subscriptions and resource groups that customers have delegated.
Enable out of the box security content
Microsoft Sentinel provides security content packaged in SIEM solutions that enable you to ingest data, monitor, alert, hunt, investigate, respond, and connect with different products, platforms, and services.
Azure portal
Defender portal


For more information, seeAbout Microsoft Sentinel content and solutions.
Collect data at scale
Collect data across all users, devices, applications, and infrastructure, both on-premises and in multiple clouds.
Azure portal
Defender portal


The following table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for data collection.
Detect threats
Detect previously undetected threats, and minimize false positives using Microsoft's analytics and unparalleled threat intelligence.
Azure portal
Defender portal


The following table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for threat detection.
Investigate threats
Investigate threats with artificial intelligence, and hunt for suspicious activities at scale, tapping into years of cyber security work at Microsoft.

The following table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for threat investigation.
Respond to incidents rapidly
Automate your common tasks and simplify security orchestration with playbooks that integrate with Azure services and your existing tools. Microsoft Sentinel's automation and orchestration provides a highly extensible architecture that enables scalable automation as new technologies and threats emerge.
Playbooks in Microsoft Sentinel are based on workflows built in Azure Logic Apps. For example, if you use the ServiceNow ticketing system, use Azure Logic Apps to automate your workflows and open a ticket in ServiceNow each time a particular alert or incident is generated.

The following table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for threat response.
Related content
Quickstart: Onboard Microsoft Sentinel
Deployment guide for Microsoft Sentinel
Plan costs and understand Microsoft Sentinel pricing and billing
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources