Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Overview of Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager
Article
2024-08-07
5 contributors
In this article
Azure Resource Manageris the deployment and management service for Azure. It provides a management layer that enables you to create, update, and delete resources in your Azure account. You use management features, like access control, locks, and tags, to secure and organize your resources after deployment.
The cloud management layer is a crucial service connected to all your cloud resources. Because of this, it is also a potential target for attackers. Consequently, we recommend security operations teams monitor the resource management layer closely.
Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager automatically monitors the resource management operations in your organization, whether they're performed through the Azure portal, Azure REST APIs, Azure CLI, or other Azure programmatic clients. Defender for Cloud runs advanced security analytics to detect threats and alerts you about suspicious activity.
Availability
What are the benefits of Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager?
Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager protects against issues including:
Suspicious resource management operations, such as operations from malicious IP addresses, disabling antimalware, and suspicious scripts running in VM extensions
Use of exploitation toolkitslike Microburst or PowerZure
Lateral movementfrom the Azure management layer to the Azure resources data plane

A full list of the alerts provided by Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager is on thealerts reference page.
Next steps
In this article, you learned about Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager.
Enable enhanced protections
For related material, see the following article:
Security alerts might be generated or received by Defender for Cloud from different security products. To export all of these alerts to Microsoft Sentinel, any third-party SIEM, or any other external tool, follow the instructions inExporting alerts to a SIEM solution.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources