Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor service limits
Article
2025-03-19
2 contributors
In this article
This article lists limits in different areas of Azure Monitor.
Alerts
Alerts API
Azure Monitor alerts have several throttling limits to protect against users making an excessive number of calls. Such behavior can potentially overload the system back-end resources and jeopardize service responsiveness. The following limits are designed to protect customers from interruptions and ensure a consistent service level. The user throttling and limits are designed to affect only extreme usage scenarios. They shouldn't be relevant for typical usage.
Note
There is a limit of API calls per instance. The exact limit number depands on the number of instances.
Action groups
You can have an unlimited number of action groups in a subscription.
Autoscale
Prometheus metrics
Ingestion
Azure managed Prometheus is a case insensitive system. It treats strings, such as metric names, label names, or label values, as the same time series if they differ from another time series only by the case of the string. For more information, seePrometheus metrics overview.
The following limits apply to the Azure Monitor workspace ingesting your Prometheus metrics.
The following limits apply to the data collection rule (DCR) and data collection endpoint (DCE) sending Prometheus metrics data to your Azure Monitor workspace.
Prometheus queries are created by using PromQL and can be authored in either Azure Managed Grafana or self-managed Grafana.
Query data limitsFor client traffic:
For recording rules traffic:
Query pre-parsing limitsBased on query time range and request type, over a 30-second window (for client traffic):
Based on query time range and request type, over a 3-minute window (for recording rules traffic):
Query post-parsing limitsBased on query time range and range vectors in query over a 30-second window (for client traffic):
Based on query time range and range vectors in query over a 3-minute window (for recording rules traffic):
Query cost throttling limits
Query cost calculation is done as follows:
Query Cost = (Number of time series requested * (queried time duration in seconds /Inferred time resolution of queried data)) / 5000
Inferred time resolution of queried data= Number of data points stored in any one randomly selected time series keys of queried metric / queried time duration in seconds
Note
A single metric in the query has a limit of max size of 64MB in bytes for the result of time series keys requested in the query.
Prometheus alert rules and recording rules are defined in PromQL. They're performed on the managed Ruler service as part of Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus.
Calculations were determined by using a remote batch size of 500, which is the default.
Logs Ingestion API
Retry-After
Retry-After
Data collection rules
Diagnostic settings
Log queries and language
General query limits
User query throttling
Azure Monitor has several throttling limits to protect against users sending an excessive number of queries. Such behavior can potentially overload the system back-end resources and jeopardize service responsiveness. The following limits are designed to protect customers from interruptions and ensure consistent service level. The user throttling and limits are designed to affect only extreme usage scenarios and shouldn't be relevant for typical usage.
Theactivity logs APIhas a separate rate limit of 50 queries per 30 seconds.
Optimize your queries as described inOptimize log queries in Azure Monitor.
Dashboards and workbooks can contain multiple queries in a single view that generate a burst of queries every time they load or refresh. Consider breaking them up into multiple views that load on demand.
In Power BI, consider extracting only aggregated results rather than raw logs.
Log Analytics workspaces
Data collection volume and retention
Number of workspaces per subscription

Azure portal
Data Collector API

Query API
Azure Monitor Logs connector
Summary rules
General workspace limits
Data ingestion volume rate
Azure Monitor is a high-scale data service that serves thousands of customers sending Terabytes of data each daily and at a growing pace. A soft volume rate limit intends to isolate Azure Monitor customers from sudden ingestion spikes in a multitenancy environment. The default ingestion volume rate threshold in workspaces is 500 MB (compressed), which is translated to approximately 6 GB/min uncompressed.
The volume rate limit applies to data ingested fromworkspace-based Application Insights, Azure resources viaDiagnostic settings, andData Collector API. When the volume rate limit is reached, a retry mechanism attempts to ingest the data four times in a period of 12 hours and drop it if operation fails. The limit doesn't apply to data ingested fromagents, or viaData Collection Rule (DCR).
When volume rate is higher than 80% of the threshold in your workspace, an event is sent to theOperationtable in your workspace every 6 hours while the threshold exceeds. When the ingested volume rate is higher than the threshold, some data is dropped, an event is sent to theOperationtable in your workspace every 6 hours while the threshold exceeds.
Operation
Operation
If your ingestion volume rate exceeds threshold or you're plan to increase ingestion that reach threshold,contact support to request increasing the rate limit in your workspace.
It's recommended Creating an alert rule to get notify when nearing or reaching ingestion rate limits. SeeMonitor health of Log Analytics workspace in Azure Monitor.
Note
Depending on how long you've been using Log Analytics, you might have access to legacy pricing tiers. Learn more aboutLog Analytics legacy pricing tiers.
Application Insights
There are some limits on the number of metrics and events per application, that is, per instrumentation key. Limits depend on thepricing planthat you choose.
For more information about pricing and quotas, seeApplication Insights billing.
Azure Monitor Private Link Scope (AMPLS)
AMPLS objects have the following limits:
A virtual network can connect to only one AMPLS object. That means the AMPLS object must provide access to all the Azure Monitor resources to which the virtual network should have access.
An AMPLS object can connect to up to 3,000 Log Analytics workspaces and up to 10,000 Application Insights components. This increase from 300 Log Analytics workspaces and 1,000 Application Insights components is currently in public preview.
An Azure Monitor resource can connect to up to 100 AMPLS. This increase from 5 AMPLS is currently in public preview.
An AMPLS object can connect to up to 10 private endpoints.
Next steps
Azure Monitor pricing
Azure Monitor cost and usage
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources