Architect scalable e-commerce web app
Solution ideas
This article describes a solution idea. Your cloud architect can use this guidance to help visualize the major components for a typical implementation of this architecture. Use this article as a starting point to design a well-architected solution that aligns with your workload's specific requirements.
Build scalable e-commerce web apps with Azure Functions and Web Apps, so you can create personalized experiences while Azure takes care of the infrastructure. This solution is ideal for the retail industry.
Potential use cases
This solution is ideal for retail organizations, but it can apply to other industries that sell goods and services.
Architecture

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Dataflow
User accesses the web app in browser and signs in.
Browser pulls static resources such as images from Azure Content Delivery Network.
User searches for products and queries SQL database.
Web site pulls product catalog from database.
Web app pulls product images from Blob Storage.
Page output is cached in Azure Cache for Redis for better performance.
User submits order and order is placed in the queue.
Azure Functions processes order payment.
Azure Functions makes payment to third party and records payment in SQL database.
Components
Web Apps: An App Service Web App runs in a single region, accessible to web and mobile browsers
Azure SQL Database: Managed, intelligent SQL in the cloud
Azure Functions: Process events with serverless code
Application Insights: Detect, triage, and diagnose issues in your web apps and services
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Andrew Harvey| Principal Program Manager - Microsoft for Startups
Next steps
Get started easily with Web Apps using the five-minute quick starts
Build an ASP.NET app in Azure with SQL Database
Learn what can you do with Azure Functions
Application Performance Management with Application Insights