Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Disk Encryption for Linux virtual machines FAQ
FAQ
4 contributors
In this article
This article provides answers to frequently asked questions (FAQ) about Azure Disk Encryption for Linux virtual machines (VMs). For more information about this service, seeAzure Disk Encryption overview.
What is Azure Disk Encryption for Linux virtual machines?
Azure Disk Encryption for Linux virtual machines uses the dm-crypt feature of Linux to provide full disk encryption of the OS disk* and data disks. Additionally, it provides encryption of the temporary disk when using theEncryptFormatAll feature. The content flows encrypted from the VM to the Storage backend with a customer-managed key.
SeeSupported virtual machines and operating systems.
Where is Azure Disk Encryption in general availability (GA)?
Azure Disk Encryption for Linux virtual machines is in general availability in all Azure public regions.
What user experiences are available with Azure Disk Encryption?
Azure Disk Encryption GA supports Azure Resource Manager templates, Azure PowerShell, and Azure CLI. The different user experiences give you flexibility. You have three different options for enabling disk encryption for your virtual machines. For more information on the user experience and step-by-step guidance available in Azure Disk Encryption, seeAzure Disk Encryption scenarios for Linux.
How much does Azure Disk Encryption cost?
There's no charge for encrypting VM disks with Azure Disk Encryption, but there are charges associated with the use of Azure Key Vault. For more information on Azure Key Vault costs, see theKey Vault pricingpage.
How can I start using Azure Disk Encryption?
To get started, read theAzure Disk Encryption overview.
What VM sizes and operating systems support Azure Disk Encryption?
TheAzure Disk Encryption overviewarticle lists theVM sizesandVM operating systemsthat support Azure Disk Encryption.
Can I encrypt both boot and data volumes with Azure Disk Encryption?
Yes, you can encrypt both boot and data volumes, or you can encrypt the data volume without having to encrypt the OS volume first.
After you've encrypted the OS volume, disabling encryption on the OS volume isn't supported. For Linux virtual machines in a scale set, only the data volume can be encrypted.
Can I encrypt an unmounted volume with Azure Disk Encryption?
No, Azure Disk Encryption only encrypts mounted volumes.
What is Storage server-side encryption?
Storage server-side encryption encrypts Azure managed disks in Azure Storage. Managed disks are encrypted by default with Server-side encryption with a platform-managed key (as of June 10, 2017). You can manage encryption of managed disks with your own keys by specifying a customer-managed key. For more information see:Server-side encryption of Azure managed disks.
How is Azure Disk Encryption different from other disk encryption solutions and when should I use each solution?
SeeOverview of managed disk encryption options.
How do I rotate secrets or encryption keys?
To rotate secrets, just call the same command you used originally to enable disk encryption, specifying a different Key Vault. To rotate the key encryption key, call the same command you used originally to enable disk encryption, specifying the new key encryption.
Warning
If you previously usedAzure Disk Encryption with Microsoft Entra appby specifying Microsoft Entra credentials to encrypt this VM, you must continue to use this option to encrypt your VM. You can't use Azure Disk Encryption on this encrypted VM as this isn't a supported scenario, meaning switching away from Microsoft Entra application for this encrypted VM isn't supported yet.
How do I add or remove a key encryption key if I didn't originally use one?
To add a key encryption key, call the enable command again passing the key encryption key parameter. To remove a key encryption key, call the enable command again without the key encryption key parameter.
Does Azure Disk Encryption allow you to bring your own key (BYOK)?
Yes, you can supply your own key encryption keys. These keys are safeguarded in Azure Key Vault, which is the key store for Azure Disk Encryption. For more information on the key encryption keys support scenarios, seeCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption.
Can I use an Azure-created key encryption key?
Yes, you can use Azure Key Vault to generate a key encryption key for Azure disk encryption use. These keys are safeguarded in Azure Key Vault, which is the key store for Azure Disk Encryption. For more information on the key encryption key, seeCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption.
Can I use an on-premises key management service or HSM to safeguard the encryption keys?
You can't use the on-premises key management service or HSM to safeguard the encryption keys with Azure Disk Encryption. You can only use the Azure Key Vault service to safeguard the encryption keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, seeCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption.
What are the prerequisites to configure Azure Disk Encryption?
There are prerequisites for Azure Disk Encryption. See theCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryptionarticle to create a new key vault, or set up an existing key vault for disk encryption access to enable encryption, and safeguard secrets and keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, seeCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption.
What are the prerequisites to configure Azure Disk Encryption with a Microsoft Entra app (previous release)?
There are prerequisites for Azure Disk Encryption. See theAzure Disk Encryption with Microsoft Entra IDcontent to create an Microsoft Entra application, create a new key vault, or set up an existing key vault for disk encryption access to enable encryption, and safeguard secrets and keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, seeCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption with Microsoft Entra ID.
Is Azure Disk Encryption using a Microsoft Entra app (previous release) still supported?
Yes. Disk encryption using a Microsoft Entra app is still supported. However, when encrypting new virtual machines it's recommended that you use the new method rather than encrypting with a Microsoft Entra app.
Can I migrate virtual machines that were encrypted with a Microsoft Entra app to encryption without a Microsoft Entra app?
Currently, there isn't a direct migration path for machines that were encrypted with a Microsoft Entra app to encryption without a Microsoft Entra app. Additionally, there isn't a direct path from encryption without a Microsoft Entra app to encryption with an AD app.
What version of Azure PowerShell does Azure Disk Encryption support?
Use the latest version of the Azure PowerShell SDK to configure Azure Disk Encryption. Download the latest version ofAzure PowerShell. Azure Disk Encryption isnotsupported by Azure SDK version 1.1.0.
Note
The Linux Azure disk encryption preview extension "Microsoft.OSTCExtension.AzureDiskEncryptionForLinux" is deprecated. This extension was published for Azure disk encryption preview release. You should not use the preview version of the extension in your testing or production deployment.
For deployment scenarios like Azure Resource Manager (ARM), where you have a need to deploy Azure disk encryption extension for Linux VM to enable encryption on your Linux IaaS VM, you must use the Azure disk encryption production supported extension "Microsoft.Azure.Security.AzureDiskEncryptionForLinux".
Can I apply Azure Disk Encryption on my custom Linux image?
You can't apply Azure Disk Encryption on your custom Linux image. Only the gallery Linux images for the supported distributions called out previously are supported. Custom Linux images aren't currently supported.
Can I apply updates to a Linux Red Hat VM that uses the yum update?
Yes, you can perform a yum update on a Red Hat Linux VM.  For more information, seeAzure Disk Encryption on an isolated network.
What is the recommended Azure disk encryption workflow for Linux?
The following workflow is recommended to have the best results on Linux:
Start from the unmodified stock gallery image corresponding to the needed OS distro and version
Back up any mounted drives you want encrypted.  This back up allows for recovery if there's a failure, for example if the VM is rebooted before encryption has completed.
Encrypt (can take several hours or even days depending on VM characteristics and size of any attached data disks)
Customize, and add software to the image as needed.
If this workflow isn't possible, relying onStorage Service Encryption (SSE)at the platform storage account layer may be an alternative to full disk encryption using dm-crypt.
What is the disk "Bek Volume" or "/mnt/azure_bek_disk"?
The "Bek volume" is a local data volume that securely stores the encryption keys for Encrypted Azure virtual machines.
Note
Do not delete or edit any contents in this disk. Do not unmount the disk since the encryption key presence is needed for any encryption operations on the IaaS VM.
What encryption method does Azure Disk Encryption use?
Azure Disk Encryption uses the decrypt default of aes-xts-plain64 with a 256-bit volume master key.
If I use EncryptFormatAll and specify all volume types, will it erase the data on the data drives that we already encrypted?
No, data won't be erased from data drives that are already encrypted using Azure Disk Encryption. Similar to how EncryptFormatAll didn't re-encrypt the OS drive, it won't re-encrypt the already encrypted data drive. For more information, see theEncryptFormatAll criteria.
Is XFS filesystem supported?
Encryption of XFS OS disks is supported.
Encryption of XFS data disks is supported only when the EncryptFormatAll parameter is used. This option reformats the volume, erasing any data previously there. For more information, see theEncryptFormatAll criteria.
Is resizing the OS partition supported?
Resize of an Azure Disk Encryption encrypted OS disk isn't supported.
Can I backup and restore an encrypted VM?
Azure Backup provides a mechanism to backup and restore encrypted VM's within the same subscription and region.  For instructions, please seeBack up and restore encrypted virtual machines with Azure Backup.  Restoring an encrypted VM to a different region is not currently supported.
Where can I go to ask questions or provide feedback?
You can ask questions or provide feedback on theMicrosoft Q&A question page for Azure Disk Encryption.
Next steps
In this document, you learned more about the most frequent questions related to Azure Disk Encryption. For more information about this service, see the following articles:
Azure Disk Encryption Overview
Apply disk encryption in Azure Security Center
Azure data encryption at rest
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources