Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Firewall Explicit proxy (preview)
Article
2023-08-11
5 contributors
In this article
Important
Explicit proxy is currently in PREVIEW.
See theSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previewsfor legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Azure Firewall operates in a transparent proxy mode by default. In this mode, traffic is sent to the firewall using a user defined route (UDR) configuration. The firewall intercepts that traffic inline and passes it to the destination.
With Explicit proxy set on the outbound path, you can configure a proxy setting on the sending application (such as a web browser) with Azure Firewall configured as the proxy. As a result, traffic from the sending application goes to the firewall's private IP address and therefore egresses directly from the firewall without the using  a UDR.
With the Explicit proxy mode (supported for HTTP/S), you can define proxy settings in the browser to point to the firewall private IP address. You can manually configure the IP address on the browser or application, or you can configure a proxy auto config (PAC) file. The firewall can host the PAC file to serve the proxy requests after you upload it to the firewall.
Configuration
Once the feature is enabled, the following screen shows on the portal:NoteThe HTTP and HTTPS ports can't be the same.
Once the feature is enabled, the following screen shows on the portal:

Note
The HTTP and HTTPS ports can't be the same.
Next, to allow the traffic to pass through the Firewall, create anapplicationrule in the Firewall policy to allow this traffic.ImportantYou must use an application rule. A network rule won't work.
Next, to allow the traffic to pass through the Firewall, create anapplicationrule in the Firewall policy to allow this traffic.
Important
You must use an application rule. A network rule won't work.
To use the Proxy autoconfiguration (PAC) file, selectEnable proxy auto-configuration.
To use the Proxy autoconfiguration (PAC) file, selectEnable proxy auto-configuration.
First, upload the PAC file to a storage container that you create. Then, on theEnable explicit proxypage, configure the shared access signature (SAS) URL. Configure the port where the PAC is served from, and then selectApplyat the bottom of the page.The SAS URL must have READ permissions so the firewall can download the file. If changes are made to the PAC file, a new SAS URL needs to be generated and configured on the firewallEnable explicit proxypage.
First, upload the PAC file to a storage container that you create. Then, on theEnable explicit proxypage, configure the shared access signature (SAS) URL. Configure the port where the PAC is served from, and then selectApplyat the bottom of the page.
The SAS URL must have READ permissions so the firewall can download the file. If changes are made to the PAC file, a new SAS URL needs to be generated and configured on the firewallEnable explicit proxypage.

Next steps
To learn more about Explicit proxy, seeDemystifying Explicit proxy: Enhancing Security with Azure Firewall.
To learn how to deploy an Azure Firewall, seeDeploy and configure Azure Firewall using Azure PowerShell.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources