Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Linux Container Host support lifecycle
Article
2024-12-11
4 contributors
In this article
This article describes the support lifecycle for the Azure Linux Container Host for AKS.
Important
Microsoft is committed to meeting this support lifecycle and reserves the right to make changes to the support agreement and new scenarios that require modifications at any time with proper notice to customers and partners.
Image releases
Minor releases
At the beginning of each month, Mariner releases a minor image version containing medium, high, and critical package updates from the previous month. This release also includes minor kernel updates and bug fixes.
For more information on the CVE service level agreement (SLA), seeCVE infrastructure.
Major releases
About every three years, Azure Linux releases a major image version containing new packages and package versions, an updated kernel, and enhancements to security, tooling, performance, and developer experience. Azure Linux releases a beta version of the major release about three months before the general availability (GA) release.
An Azure Linux release supports an AKS version throughout its standard community support. For example, Azure Linux 2.0 will support AKS v1.31 throughout the standardsupport lifecycle.
The following table outlines the first and last AKS release supported by each version of Azure Linux:
Note
AKS customers will automatically move to Azure Linux 3.0 when upgrading their AKS versions from 1.31 to 1.32. No additional action is required.
AKS LTS Releases
Azure Linux 2.0 is the node OS throughout AKS version v1.27 Standard Support and Long-term support.
Azure Linux 2.0 has a lifecycle which ends when AKS version v1.30 ends Standard Support. Therefore, Azure Linux does not support AKS v1.30 LTS enrollment.
Next steps
Learn more aboutAzure Linux Container Host support.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources