Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Upgrade your Azure AI Search service in the Azure portal
Article
2025-04-10
1 contributor
In this article
Note
This feature is currently in public preview. This preview is provided without a service-level agreement and isn't recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities. For more information, seeSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews.
An upgrade brings older search services to the capabilities of new services created in the same region. Specifically, it upgrades the computing power of the underlying service. This one-time operation doesn't introduce breaking changes to your application, and you shouldn't need to change any code.
Foreligible services, an upgrade increases thepartition storageandvector index sizeon the same tier at no extra cost.
Tip
Looking tochange your pricing tier? You can now move up between Basic and Standard (S1, S2, and S3) tiers.
This article describes how to upgrade your service in theAzure portal. Alternatively, you can use theSearch Management REST APIsto upgrade your service programmatically. For more information, seeManage your search service using REST.
About service upgrades
In April 2024, Azure AI Search increased thestorage capacityof newly created search services. Services created before April 2024 saw no capacity changes, so if you wanted larger and faster partitions, you had to create a new service. However, some older services can now be upgraded to benefit from the higher capacity partitions.
In this preview, an upgrade only increases thestorage limitandvector index sizeofeligible services.
Upgrade eligibility
To qualify for an upgrade, your service:
Must have been created before April 2024. Services created after April 2024 should already have higher capacity. To see when you created your service,check your service creation date.
Must be in a region where higher capacity is enabled.
Must be in one of the following regions:East USNorth Central USWest Central USUK South
East US
North Central US
West Central US
UK South
Higher storage limits
Foreligible services, the following table compares the storage limit (per partition) before and after an upgrade.
1Basic services created before April 3, 2024 were originally limited to one partition, which increases to three partitions after an upgrade.Partition counts for all other pricing tiersstay the same.
Higher vector limits
Foreligible services, the following table compares the vector index size (per partition) before and after an upgrade.
1Applies to services created before July 1, 2023.
2Applies to services created between July 1, 2023 and April 3, 2024 in all regions except Germany West Central, Qatar Central, and West India, to which the1limits apply.
Check your service creation or upgrade date
On theOverviewpage, you can view various metadata about your search service, including theCreate date (UTC)andUpgrade date (UTC).

The date you created your service partially determines itsupgrade eligibility. If your service has never been upgraded, theUpgrade date (UTC)doesn't appear.
Upgrade your service
You can’t undo a service upgrade. Before you proceed, make sure that you want to permanently increase thestorage limitandvector index sizeof your search service. We recommend that you test this operation in a nonproduction environment.
To upgrade your service:
Sign in to theAzure portaland select your search service.
Sign in to theAzure portaland select your search service.
On theOverviewpage, selectUpgradefrom the command bar.If this button appears dimmed, an upgrade isn’t available for your service. Your service either has thelatest upgradeor is in anunsupported region.
On theOverviewpage, selectUpgradefrom the command bar.

If this button appears dimmed, an upgrade isn’t available for your service. Your service either has thelatest upgradeor is in anunsupported region.
Review the upgrade details for your service, and then selectUpgrade.A confirmation appears reminding you that the upgrade can't be undone.
Review the upgrade details for your service, and then selectUpgrade.

A confirmation appears reminding you that the upgrade can't be undone.
To permanently upgrade your service, selectUpgrade.
To permanently upgrade your service, selectUpgrade.

Check your notifications to confirm that the operation started.The upgrade is an asynchronous operation, so you can continue using your service. Depending on the size of your service, the upgrade can take several hours to complete.If the upgrade fails, your service returns to its original state.
Check your notifications to confirm that the operation started.
The upgrade is an asynchronous operation, so you can continue using your service. Depending on the size of your service, the upgrade can take several hours to complete.
If the upgrade fails, your service returns to its original state.
Next step
After you upgrade your search service, you might want to reconsider your scale configuration:
Estimate and manage capacity of an Azure AI Search service
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources