Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Optimize Microsoft Defender for Cloud costs with a pre-purchase plan
Article
2024-09-10
4 contributors
In this article
You can save on your Microsoft Defender for Cloud costs when youprepurchase Microsoft Defender for Cloud commit units (DCU) for one year. You can use the prepurchased DCUs at any time during the purchase term. Unlike VMs, the prepurchased units don't expire on an hourly basis and you can use them at any time during the term of the purchase.
Any eligible Microsoft Defender for Cloud usage deducts from the prepurchased DCUs automatically. You don't need to redeploy or assign a pre-purchased plan to your Microsoft Defender for Cloud workspaces for the DCU usage to get the prepurchase discounts.
Determine the right size to buy
A Defender for Cloud prepurchase applies to all Defender for Cloud plans. You can think of the prepurchase as a pool of prepaid Defender for Cloud commit units. Usage is deducted from the pool, regardless of the workload.
There's no ratio on which the DCUs are applied. DCUs are equivalent to the purchase currency value and are deducted at retail prices. Like other reservations, the benefit of a prepurchase plan is discounted pricing by committing to a purchase term. The more you buy, the larger the discount you receive.
For example, if you purchase 5,000 Commit Units for a one-year term, you get a 10% discount on Defender for Cloud products at this tier, so you pay only 4,500 USD. You can choose to use these units with Defender for Servers P2, and Defender CSPM plans on 20 Virtual machines (Azure VMs) for one year, which uses up 4800 Commit units.
As another example, an enterprise customer has an Annual Commitment Discount (ACD) of 10%. This customer typically consumes 120,000 USD worth of Microsoft Defender for Cloud at retail prices annually. With the ACD applied, their actual usage cost is 108,000 USD.
This year, the customer decided to purchase 100,000 Defender Credit Units (DCUs) for 82,000 USD, which includes an 18% discount off the retail prices. This discount isn't combined with the ACD, effectively making the actual discount rate 8%.
As DCUs are consumed at retail prices, the customer would still need to use 20,000 USD worth of Defender for Cloud at the pay-as-you-go (PAYG) rates, applying the ACD discount.
At the end of the commitment period, the actual Defender for Cloud usage cost for the customer would be 82,000 USD for the DCUs (reflecting the price with the 18% discount) plus 18,000 USD for the PAYG consumption (reflecting the 10% ACD discount). This totals to 100,000 USD.
Note
The mentioned prices are for example purposes only. They aren't intended to represent actual costs.
The Microsoft Defender for Cloud prepurchase discount applies to usage from the following products:
Microsoft Defender for Servers
Microsoft Defender for App Service
Microsoft Defender for Storage
Microsoft Defender for Key Vault
Microsoft Defender for SQL
Microsoft Defender for DNS
Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager
Microsoft Defender for PostgreSQL
Microsoft Defender for MariaDB
Microsoft Defender for Azure Cosmos DB
Microsoft Defender for Containers
Microsoft Defender CSPM
Microsoft Defender for APIs
For more information about available DCU tiers and pricing discounts, see the reservation purchase experience in the following section.
Purchase Defender for Cloud commit units
You can buy Defender for Cloud plans in theAzure portal. To buy a prepurchase plan, you must have the owner role for at least one enterprise or Microsoft Customer Agreement or an individual subscription with pay-as-you-go rates subscription, or the required role for CSP subscriptions.
To buy a reservation, you must have owner role or reservation purchaser role on an Azure subscription.
To buy a reservation, you must have owner role or reservation purchaser role on an Azure subscription.
For Enterprise Agreement (EA) subscriptions, theReserved Instancespolicy option must be enabled in theAzure portal. Or if that setting is disabled, you must be an EA Admin of the subscription.
For Enterprise Agreement (EA) subscriptions, theReserved Instancespolicy option must be enabled in theAzure portal. Or if that setting is disabled, you must be an EA Admin of the subscription.
For CSP subscriptions, follow the steps inAcquire, provision, and manage Azure reserved VM instances (RI) + server subscriptions for customers.
For CSP subscriptions, follow the steps inAcquire, provision, and manage Azure reserved VM instances (RI) + server subscriptions for customers.
To Purchase:
Go to theAzure portal.
Go to theAzure portal.
If needed, navigate toReservationsand then at the top of the page, select+ Add.
If needed, navigate toReservationsand then at the top of the page, select+ Add.
On the Purchase reservations page, selectMicrosoft Defender for Cloud Pre-Purchase Plan.
On the Purchase reservations page, selectMicrosoft Defender for Cloud Pre-Purchase Plan.
On the Select the product you want to purchase page, select a subscription. Use theSubscriptionlist to select the subscription used to pay for the reserved capacity. The payment method of the subscription is charged the upfront costs for the reserved capacity. Charges are deducted from the enrollment's Azure Prepayment (previously called monetary commitment) balance or charged as overage.
On the Select the product you want to purchase page, select a subscription. Use theSubscriptionlist to select the subscription used to pay for the reserved capacity. The payment method of the subscription is charged the upfront costs for the reserved capacity. Charges are deducted from the enrollment's Azure Prepayment (previously called monetary commitment) balance or charged as overage.
Select a scope. Use theScopelist to select a subscription scope:Single resource group scope- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected resource group only.Single subscription scope- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected subscription.Shared scope- Applies the reservation discount to matching resources in eligible subscriptions that are in the billing context. For Enterprise Agreement customers, the billing context is the enrollment.Management group- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resource in the list of subscriptions that are a part of both the management group and billing scope.
Select a scope. Use theScopelist to select a subscription scope:
Single resource group scope- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected resource group only.
Single subscription scope- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected subscription.
Shared scope- Applies the reservation discount to matching resources in eligible subscriptions that are in the billing context. For Enterprise Agreement customers, the billing context is the enrollment.
Management group- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resource in the list of subscriptions that are a part of both the management group and billing scope.
Select how many Microsoft Defender for Cloud commit units you want to purchase and complete the purchase.
Select how many Microsoft Defender for Cloud commit units you want to purchase and complete the purchase.

Note
The prices listed on theReservationpage are always presented in USD.
Defender Credit Units are deducted at USD retail prices.
Change scope and ownership
You can make the following types of changes to a reservation after purchase:
Update reservation scope
Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)
You can't split or merge the Defender for Cloud pre-purchase plan. For more information about managing reservations, seeManage reservations after purchase.
Cancellations and exchanges
Cancel and exchange isn't supported for Defender for Cloud prepurchase plans. All purchases are final.
Related content
To learn more about Azure Reservations, see the following articles:
What are Azure Reservations?
What are Azure Reservations?
Manage Azure Reservations
Manage Azure Reservations
Understand Azure Reservations discount
Understand Azure Reservations discount
Understand reservation usage for your pay-as-you-go subscription
Understand reservation usage for your pay-as-you-go subscription
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources