Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Troubleshoot an Azure Resource Manager workload identity service connection
Article
2025-03-12
6 contributors
In this article
Get help debugging common issues with workload identity service connections. You also learn how to manually create a service connection if you need to.
Troubleshooting checklist
Use the following checklist to troubleshoot issues with workload identity service connections:
Review pipeline tasks to ensure that they support workload identity.
Verify that workload identity federation is active for the tenant.
Check the issuer URL and federation subject identifier for accuracy.
The following sections describe the issues and how to resolve them.
Review pipeline tasks
Not all pipelines tasks support workload identity. Specifically, only Azure Resource Manager service connection properties on tasks use workload identity federation. The table below lists workload identity federation support fortasks included with Azure DevOps. For tasks installed from theMarketplace, contact the extension publisher for support.
Verify that workload identity federation is active
If you see error messagesAADSTS700223orAADSTS700238, workload identity federation was disabled in your Microsoft Entra tenant.
Verify that there are no Microsoft Entra policies in place that block federated credentials.
Check the issuer URL for accuracy
If you see a message that indicatesno matching federated identity record found, either the issuer URL or the federation subject doesn't match. The correct issuer URL starts withhttps://login.microsoftonline.com.
https://login.microsoftonline.com
You can fix the issuer URL by editing and saving the service connection to update the issuer URL. If Azure DevOps didn't create the identity, the issuer URL must be updated manually. For Azure identities, the issuer URL automatically updates.
Common issues
The next sections identify common issues and describe causes and resolutions.

I don't have permissions to create a service principal in the Microsoft Entra tenant
You can't use the Azure DevOps service connection configuration tool if you don't have the correct permissions. Your permissions level is insufficient to use the tool if you either don't have permissions to create service principals or if you're using a different Microsoft Entra tenant than your Azure DevOps user.
You must either have permissions in Microsoft Entra ID to create app registrations or have an appropriate role (for example, Application Developer).
You have two options to resolve the issue:
Solution 1: Manually configure workload identity by using managed identity authentication
Solution 2: Manually configure workload identity by using app registration authentication
Error messages
The following table identifies common error messages and issues that might generate them:
?audience=api://AzureADTokenExchange: unsupported protocol scheme
appID
clientId
https://app.vstoken.visualstudio.com
https://login.microsoftonline.com/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
https://login.microsoftonline.com/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
sc://<org>/<project>/<service-connection>.
https://login.microsoftonline.com/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
Is the AADSTS error you see not listed above? CheckMicrosoft Entra authentication and authorization error codes.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources