Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Customize a process template
Article
2024-10-08
7 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
Process templates define the objects and processes available to you when you create a project. By customizing a process template, you customize one of more objects. Common types of customizations you can make include:
Add a new field to an existing work item type (WIT)
Modify the pick list of values for a field
Change the workflow states, reasons, transitions, and actions of a default or custom work item type
Edit the layout of a work item form
Add or remove a work item type
Change the process configuration or defaults associated with Azure Boards hubs
Note
This article describes process templates used to create projects defined on Azure DevOps Services. If you're looking forproject templatesfor software development, seeCreating Visual Studio templates.
Default process templates define default configurations and work item types used by Azure Boards and Azure Test Plans. For example, the Agile process template defines the set of work item types shown in the following image.

Many of these artifacts depend on work item types that are used to track work. For example, data fields defined in the definition of Feature, Bug, User Story, or Task are also used to define work item queries. In addition to these artifacts, you can also define the initial project areas and iterations, security configuration, and other default settings that support test plans.
After you create a project, you can change configurations and customize artifacts. However, by customizing the process template before you create your projects, all resulting projects that you create from it matches a standard set of team processes. The main reasons you might want to customize a process template include:
You plan to create several projects and you want to minimize repetitive tasks that you have to implement later in each project that you create
You want to make sure all teams adhere to certain standards by providing the templates and structures within the toolset your software development teams use
You need to update a custom process template to support using the Configure Features wizard after an upgrade
If you work with only a single project, then you might consider simply creating the project and customizing one or more objects later.
How are process templates used?
The primary use of process templates is to create a project. For the Hosted XML process model, it's also used to update a project. A project provides the set of objects, artifacts, and configurations defined in the interdependent set of template files. You use your project to organize source code, track work and information, build software, and support test activities.
Hosted XML process model
Create a project
Add or refresh a process
On-premises XML process model
Create a project
Where should I start?
Before you start customizing a process template, get familiar with what you can configure and customize and then plan your changes accordingly.
If you're new to process templates, firstreview the default process templates.
If you're new to process templates, firstreview the default process templates.
To get familiar with the file structure of a process template,review a description for each fileordownload a process template.You can modify the processes for your project after it's created. As you work with a project, the initial settings that the process template defined might no longer meet your needs.
To get familiar with the file structure of a process template,review a description for each fileordownload a process template.
You can modify the processes for your project after it's created. As you work with a project, the initial settings that the process template defined might no longer meet your needs.
If you're most interested in customizing objects used to track work, which includes test plans, test suites, and test cases, reviewCustomize your work tracking experience. The customizations you make by modifying an XML definition file for a project are the same types of customizations you make in a process template file.Toadd or modify types of work items, you can do so without changing the whole process template. You can make and test changes by using an existing project. For the On-premises XML process model, you can use thewitadmin exportwitdandimportwitdcommand-line tools to download and upload the XML definition files for work item types.
If you're most interested in customizing objects used to track work, which includes test plans, test suites, and test cases, reviewCustomize your work tracking experience. The customizations you make by modifying an XML definition file for a project are the same types of customizations you make in a process template file.
Toadd or modify types of work items, you can do so without changing the whole process template. You can make and test changes by using an existing project. For the On-premises XML process model, you can use thewitadmin exportwitdandimportwitdcommand-line tools to download and upload the XML definition files for work item types.
If you're considering making extensive customizations,review how the changes you make impacts maintenance and upgrade of your projects.
If you're considering making extensive customizations,review how the changes you make impacts maintenance and upgrade of your projects.

Process template files and functional areas you can customize
Process templates consist of nine plug-ins. Each plug-in defines a set of tasks that execute and the screens that appear when you create a project. Tasks set permissions, create folders, upload files, activate sites, or set other configurable variables. Plug-ins also specify the dependencies that a task has on the successful completion of other tasks.

Important
When you create a project from the web portal, several process template files are ignored. Specifically, the files that would create a Report Manager site aren't supported. To support reporting for a project collection, seeAdd reports to a team project.
To customize a process template, you customize one or more files associated with a functional area. While customizing any one object is fairly simple, make sure that you don't break any inter-dependencies when you customize. TheProcessTemplate.xml plug-in filedefines which plug-ins to include in the template. This file contains all the task groups that you want to run to create a project. Each task group references a subordinate XML plug-in file where the specific tasks for that plug-in are defined.
Teams, groups, permissions, & area and iteration pathsArea and iteration pathsGroups, teams, members, and permissions
Teams, groups, permissions, & area and iteration paths
Area and iteration paths
Groups, teams, members, and permissions
Work item trackingWIT definitionsCategoriesProcess configurationLink types
Work item tracking
WIT definitions
Categories
Process configuration
Link types
Test managementTest environments, configurations, resolution states, and settings
Test management
Test environments, configurations, resolution states, and settings
Plug-in dependencies
Many objects rely on the definition of other objects within a process template. For an overview of required plug-ins and plug-in dependencies, seeDefine dependencies for task groups and tasks.
Plug-in and naming restrictions
When you add objects to a process template, make sure that you label them correctly so that you avoid XML validation errors.
Restrictions are put on the names or labels of most Team Foundation objects. For an overview of naming restrictions that apply to process templates, security groups, area and iteration nodes, work item types, and work item fields, seeNaming restrictions.
Restrictions are put on the names or labels of most Team Foundation objects. For an overview of naming restrictions that apply to process templates, security groups, area and iteration nodes, work item types, and work item fields, seeNaming restrictions.
Most process template components that you customize affect only the project that you create by using the process template. The exceptions to this rule are global lists, link types, and work item fields. These objects are defined for a project collection.
Most process template components that you customize affect only the project that you create by using the process template. The exceptions to this rule are global lists, link types, and work item fields. These objects are defined for a project collection.
Each work item field has an associated field reference name that uniquely identifies each field. The reference name can't be changed after it's assigned.In addition, if you're using SQL Server Reporting Services for your project collection, the reporting name assigned to a work item field must match across all work item types that are defined for the project collection. If they don't, validation errors might occur when you upload the process template, or conflicts might occur in the data warehouse databases.Work item field names, link type names, and global lists are scoped to a project collection. If you customize any of these objects, the change is reflected in all projects that are defined in the collection and in the work item types that contain that work item field.
Each work item field has an associated field reference name that uniquely identifies each field. The reference name can't be changed after it's assigned.
In addition, if you're using SQL Server Reporting Services for your project collection, the reporting name assigned to a work item field must match across all work item types that are defined for the project collection. If they don't, validation errors might occur when you upload the process template, or conflicts might occur in the data warehouse databases.
Work item field names, link type names, and global lists are scoped to a project collection. If you customize any of these objects, the change is reflected in all projects that are defined in the collection and in the work item types that contain that work item field.
The maximum size of a process template is two gigabytes. When you customize a process template, make sure that your changes don't increase its size beyond that value.
The maximum size of a process template is two gigabytes. When you customize a process template, make sure that your changes don't increase its size beyond that value.

Steps to customize a process template
Customizing a process template is an iterative process. You need a project collection that is defined on a server that is running Azure DevOps Server where you can test your process template to make sure that it was customized correctly.
To customize a process template, you first download an existing process template, modify or add files, upload the process template files, and then verify your changes.

Tools that support customizing a process template
You can customize a process template using one of the following tools:
Any text editor or XML editor to modify XML files.
Any text editor or XML editor to modify XML files.
The Process Editor Tool.Based on the version of Visual Studio you have installed, get the Process Editor Tool from one of the following extensions.Visual Studio 2019 & 2022:As of now, there's no specific Process Template Editor extension available. But, you can still customize process templates using other tools such as any text editor or XML editor. You can also use the Azure DevOps web portal for certain customizations, especially for inherited processes.Visual Studio 2017:TFS Process Template Editor. You can also use this version of the Process Editor to modify the old-style work item forms. You can't use it to edit forms associated with thenew web forms.Visual Studio 2015:TFS Power Tools.
The Process Editor Tool.Based on the version of Visual Studio you have installed, get the Process Editor Tool from one of the following extensions.
Visual Studio 2019 & 2022:As of now, there's no specific Process Template Editor extension available. But, you can still customize process templates using other tools such as any text editor or XML editor. You can also use the Azure DevOps web portal for certain customizations, especially for inherited processes.
Visual Studio 2017:TFS Process Template Editor. You can also use this version of the Process Editor to modify the old-style work item forms. You can't use it to edit forms associated with thenew web forms.
Visual Studio 2015:TFS Power Tools.

Related articles
Learn about process templates
Explore process template and plug-in files
Configure features after upgrading
Review process template plug-ins and XML elements
Reference XML elements
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources