Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
TLS encryption with Azure Front Door
Article
2025-04-09
11 contributors
In this article
Transport Layer Security (TLS), previously known as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), is the standard security technology for establishing an encrypted link between a web server and a client, like a web browser. This link ensures that all data passed between the server and the client remain private and encrypted.
To meet your security or compliance requirements, Azure Front Door supports end-to-end TLS encryption. Front Door TLS/SSL offload terminates the TLS connection, decrypts the traffic at the Azure Front Door, and re-encrypts the traffic before forwarding it to the origin. When connections to the origin use the origin's public IP address, it's a good security practice to configure HTTPS as the forwarding protocol on your Azure Front Door. By using HTTPS as the forwarding protocol, you can enforce end-to-end TLS encryption for the entire processing of the request from the client to the origin. TLS/SSL offload is also supported if you deploy a private origin with Azure Front Door Premium using thePrivate Linkfeature.
This article explains how Azure Front Door works with TLS connections. For more information about how to use TLS certificates with your own custom domains, seeHTTPS for custom domains. To learn how to configure a TLS certificate on your own custom domain, seeConfigure a custom domain on Azure Front Door using the Azure portal.
End-to-end TLS encryption
End-to-end TLS allows you to secure sensitive data while in transit to the origin while benefiting from Azure Front Door features like global load balancing and caching. Some of the features also include URL-based routing, TCP split, caching on edge location closest to the clients, and customizing HTTP requests at the edge.
Azure Front Door offloads the TLS sessions at the edge and decrypts client requests. It then applies the configured routing rules to route the requests to the appropriate origin in the origin group. Azure Front Door then starts a new TLS connection to the origin and re-encrypts all data using the origin's certificate before transmitting the request to the origin. Any response from the origin is encrypted through the same process back to the end user. You can configure your Azure Front Door to use HTTPS as the forwarding protocol to enable end-to-end TLS.
Supported TLS versions
Azure Front Door supports two versions of the TLS protocol: TLS versions 1.2 and 1.3. All Azure Front Door profiles created after September 2019 use TLS 1.2 as the default minimum with TLS 1.3 enabled. Currently, Azure Front Door doesn't support client/mutual authentication (mTLS).
Important
As of March 1, 2025, TLS 1.0 and 1.1 are not allowed on new Azure Front Door profiles.
For Azure Front Door Standard and Premium, you can configure predefined TLS policy or choose the TLS cipher suite based on your organization's security needs. For more information, seeAzure Front Door TLS policyandconfigure TLS policy on a Front oor custom domain.
For Azure Front Door classic and Microsoft CDN classic, you can configure the minimum TLS version in Azure Front Door in the custom domain HTTPS settings using the Azure portal or theAzure REST API. For a minimum TLS version 1.2, the negotiation will attempt to establish TLS 1.3 and then TLS 1.2. When Azure Front Door initiates TLS traffic to the origin, it will attempt to negotiate the best TLS version that the origin can reliably and consistently accept. Supported TLS versions for origin connections are TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3. If you want to custom the cipher suite per needs,migrate Front Door classicandMicrosoft CDN classicto Azure Front Door standard and premium.
Note
Clients with TLS 1.3 enabled are required to support one of the Microsoft SDL compliant EC Curves, including Secp384r1, Secp256r1, and Secp521, in order to successfully make requests with Azure Front Door using TLS 1.3.
It's recommended that clients use one of these curves as their preferred curve during requests to avoid increased TLS handshake latency, which might result from multiple round trips to negotiate the supported EC curve.
Supported certificates
When you create your TLS/SSL certificate, you must create a complete certificate chain with an allowed Certificate Authority (CA) that is part of the Microsoft Trusted CA List. If you use a non-allowed CA, your request will be rejected.
Certificates from internal CAs or self-signed certificates aren't allowed.
Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) stapling
OCSP stapling is supported by default in Azure Front Door and no configuration is required.
Origin TLS connection (Azure Front Door to origin)
For HTTPS connections, Azure Front Door expects that your origin presents a certificate from a valid certificate authority (CA) with a subject name matching the originhostname. As an example, if your origin hostname is set to myapp-centralus.contoso.net and the certificate that your origin presents during the TLS handshake doesn't have myapp-centralus.contoso.net or*.contoso.net in the subject name, then Azure Front Door refuses the connection and the client sees an error.
myapp-centralus.contoso.net
myapp-centralus.contoso.net
*.contoso.net
Note
The certificate must have a complete certificate chain with leaf and intermediate certificates. The root CA must be part of the Microsoft Trusted CA List. If a certificate without complete chain is presented, the requests which involve that certificate aren't guaranteed to work as expected.
In certain use cases, such as testing, you can disable certificate subject name checks for your Azure Front Door as a workaround for resolving failing HTTPS connections. The origin must still present a certificate with a valid, trusted chain, but it doesn't need to match the origin hostname.
In Azure Front Door Standard and Premium, you can configure an origin to disable the certificate subject name check.
In Azure Front Door (classic), you can disable the certificate subject name check by changing the Azure Front Door settings in the Azure portal. You can also configure the check by using the backend pool's settings in the Azure Front Door APIs.
Note
From a security standpoint, Microsoft doesn't recommend disabling the certificate subject name check.
Frontend TLS connection (client to Azure Front Door)
To enable the HTTPS protocol for secure delivery of contents on an Azure Front Door custom domain, you can choose to use a certificate that is managed by Azure Front Door or use your own certificate.
For more information, seeHTTPS for custom domains.
Azure Front Door's managed certificate provides a standard TLS/SSL certificate via DigiCert and is stored in Azure Front Door's Key Vault.
If you choose to use your own certificate, you can onboard a certificate from a supported CA that can be a standard TLS, extended validation certificate, or even a wildcard certificate. Self-signed certificates aren't supported. Learn how to enable HTTPS for a custom domain.
Certificate autorotation
For the Azure Front Door managed certificate option, the certificates are managed and auto-rotates within 90 days of expiry time by Azure Front Door. For the Azure Front Door Standard/Premium managed certificate option, the certificates are managed and auto-rotates within 45 days of expiry time by Azure Front Door. If you're using an Azure Front Door managed certificate and see that the certificate expiry date is less than 60 days away or 30 days for the Standard/Premium SKU, file a support ticket.
For your own custom TLS/SSL certificate:
Set the secret version to 'Latest' for the certificate to be automatically rotated to the latest version when a newer version of the certificate is available in your key vault. For custom certificates, the certificate gets auto-rotated within 3-4 days with a newer version of certificate, no matter what the certificate expired time is.
Set the secret version to 'Latest' for the certificate to be automatically rotated to the latest version when a newer version of the certificate is available in your key vault. For custom certificates, the certificate gets auto-rotated within 3-4 days with a newer version of certificate, no matter what the certificate expired time is.
If a specific version is selected, autorotation isn’t supported. You'll have to reselect the new version manually to rotate certificate. It takes up to 24 hours for the new version of the certificate/secret to be deployed.NoteAzure Front Door (Standard and Premium) managed certificates are automatically rotated if the domain CNAME record points directly to a Front Door endpoint or points indirectly to a Traffic Manager endpoint. Otherwise, you need to re-validate the domain ownership to rotate the certificates.The service principal for Front Door must have access to the key vault. The updated certificate rollout operation by Azure Front Door won't cause any production downtime, as long as the subject name or subject alternate name (SAN) for the certificate hasn't changed.
If a specific version is selected, autorotation isn’t supported. You'll have to reselect the new version manually to rotate certificate. It takes up to 24 hours for the new version of the certificate/secret to be deployed.
Note
Azure Front Door (Standard and Premium) managed certificates are automatically rotated if the domain CNAME record points directly to a Front Door endpoint or points indirectly to a Traffic Manager endpoint. Otherwise, you need to re-validate the domain ownership to rotate the certificates.
The service principal for Front Door must have access to the key vault. The updated certificate rollout operation by Azure Front Door won't cause any production downtime, as long as the subject name or subject alternate name (SAN) for the certificate hasn't changed.
Supported cipher suites
For TLS 1.2/1.3, the following cipher suites are supported:
TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 (TLS 1.3 only)
TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 (TLS 1.3 only)
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
Note
Old TLS versions and weak ciphers are no longer supported.
UseTLS policyto configure specific cipher suites. Azure Front Door Standard and Premium offer two mechanisms for controlling TLS policy: you can use either a predefined policy or a custom policy per your own needs. For more information, seeConfigure TLS policy on a Front Door custom domain.
Note
For Windows 10 and later versions, we recommend enabling one or both of the ECDHE_GCM cipher suites for better security. Windows 8.1, 8, and 7 aren't compatible with these ECDHE_GCM cipher suites. The ECDHE_CBC and DHE cipher suites have been provided for compatibility with those operating systems.
Related content
Azure Front Door TLS policy
Domains in Azure Front Door
Configure a custom domain on Azure Front Door
Configure a custom domain for Azure Front Door (classic)
Configure HTTPS on an Azure Front Door (classic) custom domain
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources