Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft Threat Modeling Tool
Article
2022-08-25
6 contributors
In this article
The Threat Modeling Tool is a core element of the Microsoft Security Development Lifecycle (SDL). It allows software architects to identify and mitigate potential security issues early, when they are relatively easy and cost-effective to resolve. As a result, it greatly reduces the total cost of development. Also, we designed the tool with non-security experts in mind, making threat modeling easier for all developers by providing clear guidance on creating and analyzing threat models.
The tool enables anyone to:
Communicate about the security design of their systems
Analyze those designs for potential security issues using a proven methodology
Suggest and manage mitigations for security issues
Here are some tooling capabilities and innovations, just to name a few:
Automation:Guidance and feedback in drawing a model
STRIDE per Element:Guided analysis of threats and mitigations
Reporting:Security activities and testing in the verification phase
Unique Methodology:Enables users to better visualize and understand threats
Designed for Developers and Centered on Software:many approaches are centered on assets or attackers. We are centered on software. We build on activities that all software developers and architects are familiar with -- such as drawing pictures for their software architecture
Focused on Design Analysis:The term "threat modeling" can refer to either a requirements or a design analysis technique. Sometimes, it refers to a complex blend of the two. The Microsoft SDL approach to threat modeling is a focused design analysis technique
Next steps
The table below contains important links to get you started with the Threat Modeling Tool:
See also:System requirements
Resources
Here are a few older articles still relevant to threat modeling today:
Article on the Importance of Threat Modeling
Training Published by Trustworthy Computing
Check out what a few Threat Modeling Tool experts have done:
Threats Manager
Simone Curzi Security Blog
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources