Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is sentiment analysis and opinion mining?
Article
2025-02-21
4 contributors
In this article
Sentiment analysis and opinion mining are features offered bythe Language service, a collection of machine learning and AI algorithms in the cloud for developing intelligent applications that involve written language. These features help you find out what people think of your brand or topic by mining text for clues about positive or negative sentiment, and can associate them with specific aspects of the text.
Both sentiment analysis and opinion mining work with variouswritten languages.
Sentiment analysis
The sentiment analysis feature provides sentiment labels (such as "negative", "neutral" and "positive") based on the highest confidence score found by the service at a sentence and document-level. This feature also returns confidence scores between 0 and 1 for each document & sentences within it for positive, neutral, and negative sentiment.
Opinion mining
Opinion mining is a feature of sentiment analysis, also known as aspect-based sentiment analysis in Natural Language Processing (NLP). This feature provides more granular information about the opinions related to words (such as the attributes of products or services) in text.
Typical workflow
To use this feature, you submit data for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no added customization to the model used on your data.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create an Azure AI Language resource, which grants you access to the features offered by Azure AI Language. It generates a password (called a key) and an endpoint URL that you use to authenticate API requests.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Create a request using either the REST API or the client library for C#, Java, JavaScript, and Python. You can also send asynchronous calls with a batch request to combine API requests for multiple features into a single call.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Send the request containing your text data. Your key and endpoint are used for authentication.
Stream or store the response locally.
Stream or store the response locally.
Get started with sentiment analysis
To use sentiment analysis, you submit raw unstructured text for analysis and handle the API output in your application. Analysis is performed as-is, with no additional customization to the model used on your data. There are two ways to use sentiment analysis:
Reference documentation and code samples
As you use this feature in your applications, see the following reference documentation and samples for Azure AI Language:
Reference documentation
As you use sentiment analysis, see the following reference documentation and samples for the Language service:
Responsible AI
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who use it, the people who are affected by it, and the environment in which it's deployed. Read thetransparency note for sentiment analysisto learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems. You can also see the following articles for more information:
Next steps
The quickstart articles with instructions on using the service for the first time.Use sentiment analysis and opinion mining
Use sentiment analysis and opinion mining
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources