Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Details of the NL BIO Cloud Theme Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
Article
2025-04-07
3 contributors
In this article
The following article details how the Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
definition maps tocompliance domainsandcontrolsin NL BIO Cloud Theme.
For more information about this compliance standard, seeNL BIO Cloud Theme. To understandOwnership, review thepolicy typeandShared responsibility in the cloud.
The following mappings are to theNL BIO Cloud Themecontrols. Many of the controls
are implemented with anAzure Policyinitiative definition. To review the complete
initiative definition, openPolicyin the Azure portal and select theDefinitionspage.
Then, find and select theNL BIO Cloud ThemeRegulatory Compliance built-in
initiative definition.
Important
Each control below is associated with one or moreAzure Policydefinitions.
These policies may help youassess compliancewith the
control; however, there often is not a one-to-one or complete match between a control and one or
more policies. As such,Compliantin Azure Policy refers only to the policy definitions
themselves; this doesn't ensure you're fully compliant with all requirements of a control. In
addition, the compliance standard includes controls that aren't addressed by any Azure Policy
definitions at this time. Therefore, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your
overall compliance status. The associations between compliance domains, controls, and Azure Policy
definitions for this compliance standard may change over time. To view the change history, see theGitHub Commit History.
B.01.3 Laws and regulations   - Legal, statutory, regulatory requirements
The requirements applicable to the CSC arising from laws and regulations have been identified
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme B.01.3Ownership: Customer
B.09.1 Privacy and protection of personal data  - Security aspects and stages
Availability, integrity and confidentiality measures have been taken.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme B.09.1Ownership: Shared
B.10.2 Security organisation  - Security function
The security feature provides proactive support.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme B.10.2Ownership: Shared
B.10.3 Security organisation  - Organisational position
The CSP has given the information security organization a formal position within the entire organization.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme B.10.3Ownership: Shared
B.10.4 Security organisation  - Tasks, responsibilities and powers
The CSP has described the responsibilities for information security and assigned them to specific officers.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme B.10.4Ownership: Shared
C.04.3 Technical vulnerability management  - Timelines
If the probability of abuse and the expected damage are both high, patches are installed no later than within a week.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme C.04.3Ownership: Shared
C.04.6 Technical vulnerability management  - Timelines
Technical weaknesses can be remedied by performing patch management in a timely manner.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme C.04.6Ownership: Shared
C.04.7 Technical vulnerability management  - Evaluated
Evaluations of technical vulnerabilities are recorded and reported.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme C.04.7Ownership: Shared
C.04.8 Technical vulnerability management  - Evaluated
The evaluation reports contain suggestions for improvement and are communicated with managers/owners.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme C.04.8Ownership: Shared
C.05.5 Security Monitoring Reporting  - Monitored and reported
Demonstrably, follow-up is given to improvement proposals from analysis reports.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme C.05.5Ownership: Microsoft
U.03 - Business Continuity services
Information processing facilities should be implemented with sufficient redundancy to meet continuity requirements.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.03Ownership: Shared
U.03.1 Business Continuity Services  - Redundancy
The agreed continuity is guaranteed by sufficiently logical or physically multiple system functions.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.03.1Ownership: Shared
U.03.2 Business Continuity Services  - Continuity requirements
The continuity requirements for cloud services agreed with the CSC are ensured by the system architecture.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.03.2Ownership: Shared
U.04.1 Data and Cloud Service Recovery  - Restore function
The data and cloud services are restored within the agreed period and maximum data loss and made available to the CSC.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.04.1Ownership: Shared
U.04.2 Data and Cloud Service Recovery  - Restore function
The continuous process of recoverable protection of data is monitored.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.04.2Ownership: Shared
U.04.3 Data and Cloud Service Recovery  - Tested
The functioning of recovery functions is periodically tested and the results are shared with the CSC.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.04.3Ownership: Shared
U.05.1 Data protection  - Cryptographic measures
Data transport is secured with cryptography where key management is carried out by the CSC itself if possible.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.05.1Ownership: Customer
U.05.2 Data protection  - Cryptographic measures
Data stored in the cloud service shall be protected to the latest state of the art.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.05.2Ownership: Customer
U.07.1 Data separation  - Isolated
Permanent isolation of data is a multi-tenant architecture. Patches are realized in a controlled manner.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.07.1Ownership: Microsoft
U.07.3 Data separation  - Management features
U.07.3 - The privileges to view or modify CSC data and/or encryption keys are granted in a controlled manner and use is logged.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.07.3Ownership: Shared
U.09.3 Malware Protection  - Detection, prevention and recovery
The malware protection runs on different environments.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.09.3Ownership: Shared
U.10.2 Access to IT services and data  - Users
Under the responsibility of the CSP, access is granted to administrators.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.10.2Ownership: Shared
U.10.3 Access to IT services and data  - Users
Only users with authenticated equipment can access IT services and data.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.10.3Ownership: Shared
U.10.5 Access to IT services and data  - Competent
Access to IT services and data is limited by technical measures and has been implemented.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.10.5Ownership: Shared
U.11.1 Cryptoservices - Policy
In the cryptography policy, at least the subjects in accordance with BIO have been elaborated.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.11.1Ownership: Shared
U.11.2 Cryptoservices - Cryptographic measures
In case of PKIoverheid certificates use PKIoverheid requirements for key management. In other situations use ISO11770.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.11.2Ownership: Shared
U.11.3 Cryptoservices - Encrypted
Sensitive data is always encrypted, with private keys managed by the CSC.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.11.3Ownership: Shared
U.12.1 Interfaces  - Network connections
In connection points with external or untrusted zones, measures are taken against attacks.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.12.1Ownership: Shared
U.12.2 Interfaces  - Network connections
Network components are such that network connections between trusted and untrusted networks are limited.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.12.2Ownership: Shared
U.15.1 Logging and monitoring  - Events logged
The violation of the policy rules is recorded by the CSP and the CSC.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.15.1Ownership: Shared
U.15.3 Logging and monitoring  - Events logged
CSP maintains a list of all assets that are critical in terms of logging and monitoring and reviews this list.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.15.3Ownership: Shared
U.17.1 Multi-tenant architecture  - Encrypted
CSC data on transport and at rest is encrypted.
ID: NL BIO Cloud Theme U.17.1Ownership: Microsoft
Next steps
Additional articles about Azure Policy:
Regulatory Complianceoverview.
See theinitiative definition structure.
Review other examples atAzure Policy samples.
ReviewUnderstanding policy effects.
Learn how toremediate non-compliant resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources