Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Send data from Azure Diagnostics extension to Azure Monitor Logs using Azure Diagnostics extension
Article
2025-03-19
7 contributors
In this article
Azure Diagnostics extension is anagent in Azure Monitorthat collects monitoring data from the guest operating system of Azure compute resources including virtual machines. This article describes how to collect data collected by the diagnostics extension from Azure Storage to Azure Monitor Logs.
Important
Azure Diagnostics extension will be deprecated on March 31, 2026. After this date, Microsoft will no longer provide support for the Azure Diagnostics extension and the scenario of collecting logs from Azure Storage. We recommend usingAzure Monitor Agent, which ingests telemetry directly to Azure Monitor Logs.
Supported data types
Azure Diagnostics extension stores data in an Azure Storage account. For Azure Monitor Logs to collect this data, it must be in the following locations:
Data types not supported
The following data types aren't supported:
Performance data from the guest operating system
IIS logs from Azure websites
Enable Azure Diagnostics extension
For information on how to install and configure the diagnostics extension, seeInstall and configure Azure Diagnostics extension for Windows (WAD)orUse Azure Diagnostics extension for Linux to monitor metrics and logs. You can specify the storage account and configure collection of the data that you want to forward to Azure Monitor Logs.
Collect logs from Azure Storage
To enable collection of diagnostics extension data from an Azure Storage account:
In the Azure portal, go toLog Analytics Workspacesand select your workspace.
SelectLegacy storage account logsin theClassicsection of the menu.
SelectAdd.
Select theStorage accountthat contains the data to collect.
Select theData Typeyou want to collect.
The value forSourceis automatically populated based on the data type.
SelectOKto save the configuration.
Repeat for more data types.
In approximately 30 minutes, you'll see data from the storage account in the Log Analytics workspace. You'll only see data that's written to storage after the configuration is applied. The workspace doesn't read the preexisting data from the storage account.
Note
The portal doesn't validate that the source exists in the storage account or if new data is being written.
Next steps
Collect logs and metrics for Azure servicesfor supported Azure services.
Enable solutionsto provide insight into the data.
Use search queriesto analyze the data.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources