Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Introduction to Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes (deprecated)
Article
2024-08-07
7 contributors
In this article
Defender for Cloud provides real-time threat protection for your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) containerized environments and generates alerts for suspicious activities. You can use this information to quickly remediate security issues and improve the security of your containers.
Threat protection at the cluster level is provided by the analysis of the Kubernetes audit logs.
Host-level threat detection for your Linux AKS nodes is available if you enableMicrosoft Defender for Serversand its Log Analytics agent. However, if your cluster is deployed on an Azure Kubernetes Service virtual machine scale set, the Log Analytics agent isn't currently supported.
Availability
Important
Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes has been replaced withMicrosoft Defender for Containers. If you've already enabled Defender for Kubernetes on a subscription, you can continue to use it. However, you won't get Defender for Containers' improvements and new features.
This plan is no longer available for subscriptions where it isn't already enabled.
To upgrade to Microsoft Defender for Containers, open the Defender plans page in the portal and enable the new plan:

Learn more about this change inthe release note.
What are the benefits of Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes?
Our global team of security researchers constantly monitor the threat landscape. As container-specific alerts and vulnerabilities are discovered, these researchers add them to our threat intelligence feeds and Defender for Cloud alerts you to any that are relevant for your environment.
In addition, Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes providescluster-level threat protectionby monitoring your clusters' logs. This means that security alerts are only triggered for actions and deployments that occurafteryou've enabled Defender for Kubernetes on your subscription.
Examples of security events that Microsoft Defenders for Kubernetes monitors include:
Exposed Kubernetes dashboards
Creation of high privileged roles
Creation of sensitive mounts.
For a full list of the cluster level alerts, see alerts with "K8S_" prefix in the alert type in thereference table of alerts.
FAQ - Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes
What happens to subscriptions with Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes or Microsoft Defender for Containers enabled?
Is Defender for Containers a mandatory upgrade?
How can I calculate my potential price change?
What happens to subscriptions with Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes or Microsoft Defender for Containers enabled?
Subscriptions that already have one of these plans enabled can continue to benefit from it.
If you haven't enabled them yet, or create a new subscription, these plans can no longer be enabled.
Is Defender for Containers a mandatory upgrade?
No. Subscriptions that have either Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes or Microsoft Defender for Containers Registries enabled doesn't need to be upgraded to the new Microsoft Defender for Containers plan. However, they won't benefit from the new and improved capabilities and they’ll have an upgrade icon shown alongside them in the Azure portal.
How can I calculate my potential price change?
In order to help you understand your costs, Defender for Cloud offers the Price Estimation workbook as part of its published Workbooks. The Price Estimation workbook allows you to estimate the expected price for Defender for Cloud plans before enabling them.
Your price is dependent on your container architecture and coverage. Learnhow to enable and usethe Price Estimation workbook.
Next steps
In this article, you learned about Kubernetes protection in Defender for Cloud, including Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes.
Enable enhanced protections
For related material, see the following articles:
Stream alerts to a SIEM, SOAR, or IT Service Management solution
Reference table of alerts
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources