Minimize coordination
Minimize coordination to achieve scalability
Most cloud applications consist of multiple application services — web front ends, databases, business processes, reporting and analysis, and so on. To achieve scalability and reliability, each of those services should run on multiple instances.
Uncoordinated systems, where work can be handled independently without the need to pass messages between machines, are generally simpler to scale. Coordination is usually not a binary state, but a spectrum. Coordination occurs at different layers, such as data or compute.
What happens when two instances try to perform concurrent operations that affect some shared state? In some cases, there must be coordination across nodes, for example to preserve ACID guarantees. In this diagram,Node2is waiting forNode1to release a database lock:
Node2
Node1

Coordination limits the benefits of horizontal scale and creates bottlenecks. In this example, as you scale out the application and add more instances, you'll see increased lock contention. In the worst case, the front-end instances will spend most of their time waiting on locks.
"Exactly once" semantics are another frequent source of coordination. For example, an order must be processed exactly once. Two workers are listening for new orders.Worker1picks up an order for processing. The application must ensure thatWorker2doesn't duplicate the work, but also ifWorker1crashes, the order isn't dropped.
Worker1
Worker2
Worker1

You can use a pattern such asScheduler Agent Supervisorto coordinate between the workers, but in this case a better approach might be to partition the work. Each worker is assigned a certain range of orders (say, by billing region). If a worker crashes, a new instance picks up where the previous instance left off, but multiple instances aren't contending.
Recommendations
Use decoupled components that communicate asynchronously.Components should ideally use events to communicate with each other.
Embrace eventual consistency.When data is distributed, it takes coordination to enforce strong consistency guarantees. For example, suppose an operation updates two databases. Instead of putting it into a single transaction scope, it's better if the system can accommodate eventual consistency, perhaps by using theCompensating Transactionpattern to logically roll back after a failure.
Use domain events to synchronize state.Adomain eventis an event that records when something happens that has significance within the domain. Interested services can listen for the event, rather than using a global transaction to coordinate across multiple services. If this approach is used, the system must tolerate eventual consistency (see previous item).
Consider patterns such as CQRS and event sourcing.These two patterns can help to reduce contention between read workloads and write workloads.
TheCQRS patternseparates read operations from write operations. In some implementations, the read data is physically separated from the write data.
TheCQRS patternseparates read operations from write operations. In some implementations, the read data is physically separated from the write data.
In theEvent Sourcing pattern, state changes are recorded as a series of events to an append-only data store. Appending an event to the stream is an atomic operation, requiring minimal locking.
In theEvent Sourcing pattern, state changes are recorded as a series of events to an append-only data store. Appending an event to the stream is an atomic operation, requiring minimal locking.
These two patterns complement each other. If the write-only store in CQRS uses event sourcing, the read-only store can listen for the same events to create a readable snapshot of the current state, optimized for queries. Before adopting CQRS or event sourcing, however, be aware of the challenges of this approach.
Partition data and state.Avoid putting all of your data into one data schema that is shared across many application services. A microservices architecture enforces this principle by making each service responsible for its own data store. Within a single database, partitioning the data into shards can improve concurrency, because a service writing to one shard does not affect a service writing to a different shard. Even though partitioning adds some degree of coordination, you can use partitioning to increase parallelism for better scalability. Partition monolithic state into smaller chunks so the data can be managed independently.
Design idempotent operations.When possible, design operations to be idempotent. That way, they can be handled using at-least-once semantics. For example, you can put work items on a queue. If a worker crashes in the middle of an operation, another worker simply picks up the work item. If the worker needs to update data as well as emit other messages as a part of its logic, theidempotent message processing patternshould be used.
Use optimistic concurrency when possible.Pessimistic concurrency control uses database locks to prevent conflicts. This can cause poor performance and reduce availability. With optimistic concurrency control, each transaction modifies a copy or snapshot of the data. When the transaction is committed, the database engine validates the transaction and rejects any transactions that would affect database consistency.
Azure SQL Database and SQL Server support optimistic concurrency throughsnapshot isolation. Some Azure storage services support optimistic concurrency through the use of Etags, includingAzure Cosmos DBandAzure Storage.
Consider MapReduce or other parallel, distributed algorithms.Depending on the data and type of work to be performed, you may be able to split the work into independent tasks that can be performed by multiple nodes working in parallel. SeeBig compute architecture style.
Use leader election for coordination.In cases where you need to coordinate operations, make sure the coordinator does not become a single point of failure in the application. Using theLeader Election pattern, one instance is the leader at any time, and acts as the coordinator. If the leader fails, a new instance is elected to be the leader.