Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Text Visualization
Article
2024-10-30
7 contributors
In this article
The textvisualizationin query steps is different from thetextstep. A text step is a top level item in a workbook, and supports replacing parameters in the content, and allows for error/warning styling.
The textvisualizationis similar to the Azure Data Explorerrender cardbehavior, where the first cell value returned by the query (andonlythe first cell value: row 0, column 0) is displayed in the visualization.
render card
The text visualization has a style setting to change the style of the text displayed in the workbook.
Text styles
The following text styles are available for text steps:
plain
header
bignumber
markdown
editor
Examples
Given a query that returns text in a cell, showing in the standard grid visualization:

You can see that this query returned a single column of data, which appears to be a very long string. In all examples, the query step has the same header set.
Plain example
When the visualization is set toTextand thePlainstyle is selected, the text appears as a standard portal text block:
Text
Plain

Text wraps, and any special formatting values are displayed as is, with no formatting.
Header example

Text is displayed in the same style as step headers.
Big Number example

Text is displayed in big number style.
Markdown example
For the markdown example, the query response is adjusted to have markdown formatting elements inside. Without any markdown formatting in the text, the display is similar to the plain style.

Editor example:
For the editor example, newline\nand tab\tcharacters were added to the text to create multiple lines.
\n
\t

Notice how in this example, the editor has horizontal scrollbar, indicating that some of the lines in this text are wider than the control.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources