Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
ENISA IAF
Article
2022-09-25
1 contributor
In this article
ENISA IAF overview
TheEuropean Union Agency for Cybersecurity(ENISA) is the EU agency dedicated to achieving a high common level of cybersecurity across Europe. It works closely with EU member states and the private sector to provide advice and recommendations on good cybersecurity practices. ENISA also supports the development and implementation of EU policy and law related to national information security.
The ENISACloud Computing Information Assurance Framework(IAF) is a set of assurance criteria that organizations can review with cloud service providers (CSPs) to ensure they have sufficient protections in place for customer data. The IAF is intended to assess the risk of cloud adoption and reduce the assurance burden on CSPs.
Azure and ENISA IAF
Microsoft Azure aligns to the IAF by way of Azure's adherence to the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Cloud Controls Matrix (CCM), which maps CCM domains and controls to IAF assurance criteria. Azure maintains the following CCM-based assurances:
CSA STAR Level 1 Self-Assessment
CSA STAR Level 2 Certification
CSA STAR Level 2 Attestation
To review the CCM control mapping to ENISA IAF, you can download theCSA Cloud Controls Matrix (CCM).
Note
CSACCM v3.0.1provides control mapping to ENISA IAF. It is expected that the newCCM v4will be updated to include this mapping as well.
The CSASecurity, Trust, Assurance, and Risk (STAR)registry is a free, publicly accessible registry where CSPs can publish their CSA STAR assessments. Azure publishes a CSA STAR self-assessment based on the CSAConsensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ), which is a set of more than 250 questions based on the CCM that a customer or cloud auditor may want to ask of CSPs to assess their compliance with CSA best practices. Self-assessment reports are publicly available, thereby helping you gain visibility into the security practices of CSPs, and compare various CSPs using the same baseline.
Applicability
Azure
Attestation documents
To download the Azure CSA STAR Self-Assessment, CSA STAR Certification, and CSA STAR Attestation, see theCSA STAR registry for Microsoft.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
European Union Agency for Cybersecurity(ENISA)
ENISACloud Computing Information Assurance Framework(IAF)
Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)
CSACloud Controls Matrix (CCM)
CSAConsensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)
CSASecurity, Trust, Assurance, and Risk (STAR) registry
Additional resources