Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Details of the UK OFFICIAL and UK NHS Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
Article
2025-04-07
6 contributors
In this article
The following article details how the Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
definition maps tocompliance domainsandcontrolsin UK OFFICIAL and UK NHS.
For more information about this compliance standard, seeUK OFFICIAL and UK NHS. To understandOwnership, review thepolicy typeandShared responsibility in the cloud.
The following mappings are to theUK OFFICIAL and UK NHScontrols. Many of the controls
are implemented with anAzure Policyinitiative definition. To review the complete
initiative definition, openPolicyin the Azure portal and select theDefinitionspage.
Then, find and select theUK OFFICIAL and UK NHSRegulatory Compliance built-in
initiative definition.
Important
Each control below is associated with one or moreAzure Policydefinitions.
These policies may help youassess compliancewith the
control; however, there often is not a one-to-one or complete match between a control and one or
more policies. As such,Compliantin Azure Policy refers only to the policy definitions
themselves; this doesn't ensure you're fully compliant with all requirements of a control. In
addition, the compliance standard includes controls that aren't addressed by any Azure Policy
definitions at this time. Therefore, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your
overall compliance status. The associations between compliance domains, controls, and Azure Policy
definitions for this compliance standard may change over time. To view the change history, see theGitHub Commit History.
Data in transit protection
Data in transit protection
ID: UK NCSC CSP 1Ownership: Shared
Identity and authentication
Identity and authentication
ID: UK NCSC CSP 10Ownership: Shared
External interface protection
External interface protection
ID: UK NCSC CSP 11Ownership: Shared
Audit information for users
Audit information for users
ID: UK NCSC CSP 13Ownership: Shared
Asset protection and resilience
Data at rest protection
ID: UK NCSC CSP 2.3Ownership: Shared
Operational security
Vulnerability management
ID: UK NCSC CSP 5.2Ownership: Shared
Protective Monitoring
ID: UK NCSC CSP 5.3Ownership: Shared
Secure user management
Authentication of users to management interfaces and support channels
ID: UK NCSC CSP 9.1Ownership: Shared
Next steps
Additional articles about Azure Policy:
Regulatory Complianceoverview.
See theinitiative definition structure.
Review other examples atAzure Policy samples.
ReviewUnderstanding policy effects.
Learn how toremediate non-compliant resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources