Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Try Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc
Article
2025-04-01
2 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arcis an Azure Arc extension enabled service that runs video and audio analysis, andgenerative AIon edge devices. The solution is designed to run onAzure Arc enabled Kubernetesand supports many video formats, and assumes that one Video Indexer resource is mapped to one extension. It can transcribe spoken content in more than 35 source languages and supports translation to English. For a full list of supported languages, seeSupported languages per scenario.
This article walks you through the steps required to enable Video Indexer as an Arc extension in your current infrastructure.
Prerequisites
Important
To successfully deploy the Azure AI Video Indexer extension, it'smandatorythat your Azure subscription ID is approved in advance. You must first sign up using the form atApplication for gated services.
Create an Azure subscription and assign permissions to a user so they can create Azure resources.
Create an Azure AI Video Indexer account. For more information about creating an account, see theCreate a Video Indexer accounttutorial.
Create anArc enabled Kubernetes cluster.
To use the Video Indexer extension, you need to have an externally facing endpoint, which can be either a DNS name or an IP address. The endpoint should be set as a secure transfer protocol (https:\\) and is used as the extension API endpoint. It also gets used by the Video Indexer web portal to communicate with the extension. We recommend that you use an ingress control to manage the endpoint.
https:\\
Note
If the endpoint isn't publicly accessible, you can perform actions on the extension from the web portal only from the local network.
Minimum hardware requirements for this quickstart
This quickstart is designed to allow you to see the extension in action. Smaller resource sizes are suggested for you to work with in atestenvironment. For this quickstart, the minimum hardware requirements are:
CPU: 16 cores
Memory: 16 GB
The CPU in the nodes should supportAVX2. Most newer CPUs support the extension, but it might not be supported in some older virtualization environments.
To view minimum hardware requirements in aproductionenvironment, see theMinimum hardware requirementsin the overview article.
Minimum software requirements
Parameter definitions
Here's a table of the parameters used to configure the extension.
nvidia.com/gpu
summarization
Prepare for deployment
During the deployment, the script asks for environment specific values. Have these values ready so you can copy and paste them when the script asks for them.
Deploy with the Azure portal
In the Azure portal, navigate to your Azure Arc-connected cluster.
From the menu, selectExtensions>+ Add>Azure AI Video Indexer Arc Extension.
SelectCreate. TheCreate an AI Video Indexer extensionscreen appears.
Configure the extension inInstance details:Select thesubscriptionandresource groupfor your extension.Select theregion and connectedk8 cluster.Enter anamefor your extension.Select theAzure AI Video Indexer Accountthat the extension connects to.Enter thecluster endpoint, either an IP address or DNS name to use as the API endpoint.Provide thestorage classyou want to use for the extension that's supported by your Kubernetes distribution. For example, if you're using AKS, you could useazurefile-cli. For more information about predefined storage classes supported by AKS, seeStorage Classes in AKS. If you're using other Kubernetes distributions, see your Kubernetes distribution documentation for predefined storage classes supported or the way you can provide your own.Select a generative AI model to apply AI capabilities such as textual summarization on VI enabled by Arc. For more information, seeGenerative AI with Azure AI Video Indexer (VI).
Select thesubscriptionandresource groupfor your extension.
Select theregion and connectedk8 cluster.
Enter anamefor your extension.
Select theAzure AI Video Indexer Accountthat the extension connects to.
Enter thecluster endpoint, either an IP address or DNS name to use as the API endpoint.
Provide thestorage classyou want to use for the extension that's supported by your Kubernetes distribution. For example, if you're using AKS, you could useazurefile-cli. For more information about predefined storage classes supported by AKS, seeStorage Classes in AKS. If you're using other Kubernetes distributions, see your Kubernetes distribution documentation for predefined storage classes supported or the way you can provide your own.
azurefile-cli
Select a generative AI model to apply AI capabilities such as textual summarization on VI enabled by Arc. For more information, seeGenerative AI with Azure AI Video Indexer (VI).
SelectReview + createand then selectCreate.
Manual deployment
Use thesample deployment scriptto manually deploy the extension. Before you get started, consider Storage class.
Storage class- Video Indexer extension requires that a storage volume must be available on the Kubernetes cluster. The storage class needs to supportReadWriteMany. It's important to note that the indexing process is IO intensive, so the IOPS (input/output operations per second) of the storage volume has a significant effect on the duration of the process.
ReadWriteMany
Important
If you're using a language model, you mustlabel a node or a node poolwithworkload:summarization. The label is a key-value pair, the key isworkload, and the value issummarization. The machine labeled with this label must have at least 32 CPUs (for production), and we strongly recommend that they're Intel CPUs (as opposed to AMD).
workload:summarization
workload
summarization
Tip
Read theHow to connect your cluster to Azure Arcarticle for a complete walkthrough of the process.
Optional configuration
The extension default settings are set to handle the common workloads, for specific cases, the following parameters can be used to configure the resource allocation:
Next steps
Review theAzure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc samples.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources