Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Review prerequisites for Azure Local VMs enabled by Azure Arc
Article
2025-03-24
4 contributors
In this article
Applies to: Azure Local 2311.2 and later
This article lists the requirements and prerequisites for Azure Local VMs enabled by Azure Arc. We recommend that you review the requirements and complete the prerequisites before you manage your Azure Local VMs.
Azure requirements
The Azure requirements include:
To provision Azure Local VMs and VM resources such as virtual disks, logical network, network interfaces, and VM images through the Azure portal, you must have access to an Azure subscription with the appropriate RBAC role and permissions assigned. For more information, seeRBAC roles for Azure Local VMs.
To provision Azure Local VMs and VM resources such as virtual disks, logical network, network interfaces, and VM images through the Azure portal, you must have access to an Azure subscription with the appropriate RBAC role and permissions assigned. For more information, seeRBAC roles for Azure Local VMs.
Azure Local VM infrastructure is supported in the regions documented in theAzure requirements. For Azure Local VMs, all entities must be registered, enabled, or created in the same region.The entities include your Azure Local instance, Azure Arc resource bridge, Custom Location, VM operator, virtual machines created from Arc and Azure Arc for Servers guest management. These entities can be in different or same resource groups as long as all resource groups are in the same region.
Azure Local VM infrastructure is supported in the regions documented in theAzure requirements. For Azure Local VMs, all entities must be registered, enabled, or created in the same region.
The entities include your Azure Local instance, Azure Arc resource bridge, Custom Location, VM operator, virtual machines created from Arc and Azure Arc for Servers guest management. These entities can be in different or same resource groups as long as all resource groups are in the same region.
Azure Local requirements
You have access to an Azure Local instance that is deployed, has an Azure Arc resource bridge, and a custom location.Go to theOverview > Serverpage in the Azure Local resource. Verify thatAzure Arcshows asConnected. You should also see a custom location and an Azure Arc resource bridge for your system.
You have access to an Azure Local instance that is deployed, has an Azure Arc resource bridge, and a custom location.
Go to theOverview > Serverpage in the Azure Local resource. Verify thatAzure Arcshows asConnected. You should also see a custom location and an Azure Arc resource bridge for your system.
Go to theOverview > Serverpage in the Azure Local resource. Verify thatAzure Arcshows asConnected. You should also see a custom location and an Azure Arc resource bridge for your system.

Arc VM image requirements
For Arc VM images to be used on Azure Local, make sure to satisfy the following requirements:
Use only the English (en-us) language VHDs to create VM images.
Do not use Azure Virtual machine VHD disk to create VM images.
If using Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2012 R2 images, you can only create Arc VMs using the Azure CLI. For more information, seeAdditional parameters required to provision Arc VM via the Azure CLI using Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2012 R2 images.
Firewall requirements
Make sure the requirements as listed inRequired firewall URLs for Azure Local deploymentsare satisfied to allow communication between the Arc VMs running on Azure Local and Azure Arc.
Azure Command-Line Interface (CLI) requirements
Skip this section if not using Azure CLI to provision and manage Arc VMs and VM resources.
You can connect to your Azure Local system directly or you can access the system remotely. Depending on whether you're connecting to the system directly or remotely, the steps are different.
For information on Azure CLI commands for Azure Local VMs, seeaz stack-hci-vm.
Connect to the system directly
If you're accessing your Azure Local directly, no steps are needed on your part.
During the system deployment, an Azure Arc resource bridge is created and the Azure CLI extensionstack-hci-vmis installed on the system. You can connect to and manage the system using the Azure CLI extension.
stack-hci-vm
Connect to the system remotely
If you're accessing your Azure Local remotely, the following requirements must be met:
The latest version of Azure Command-Line Interface (CLI). You must install this version on the client that you're using to connect to your Azure Local.For installation instructions, seeInstall Azure CLI. Once you have installedazCLI, make sure to restart the system.If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeSign in with the Azure CLI.Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
The latest version of Azure Command-Line Interface (CLI). You must install this version on the client that you're using to connect to your Azure Local.
For installation instructions, seeInstall Azure CLI. Once you have installedazCLI, make sure to restart the system.If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeSign in with the Azure CLI.Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
For installation instructions, seeInstall Azure CLI. Once you have installedazCLI, make sure to restart the system.
az
If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeSign in with the Azure CLI.
If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeSign in with the Azure CLI.
Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
The Azure Local extensionstack-hci-vm.In the Azure portal, go to your Azure Local resource and then go toOperations > Updates. In the right pane, note theCurrent versionthat your system is running.Match theCurrent versionfrom the Azure portal toRelease build intheArc VM release tracking table. Then identify the correspondingstack-hci-vm extensionversion from the table. You'll install this version on the client that you are using to connect to your Azure Local.Check if there is a version of the extension installed on the client. Run the following command:az extension list --output tableIf there is an older version installed, remove it and install the new version. Run the following command:az extension remove --name "stack-hci-vm"To install the extension, run the following command:az extension add --name "stack-hci-vm" --version "<version>"To verify that the extension is installed, use thelistcommand again.
The Azure Local extensionstack-hci-vm.
stack-hci-vm
In the Azure portal, go to your Azure Local resource and then go toOperations > Updates. In the right pane, note theCurrent versionthat your system is running.
In the Azure portal, go to your Azure Local resource and then go toOperations > Updates. In the right pane, note theCurrent versionthat your system is running.

Match theCurrent versionfrom the Azure portal toRelease build intheArc VM release tracking table. Then identify the correspondingstack-hci-vm extensionversion from the table. You'll install this version on the client that you are using to connect to your Azure Local.
Match theCurrent versionfrom the Azure portal toRelease build intheArc VM release tracking table. Then identify the correspondingstack-hci-vm extensionversion from the table. You'll install this version on the client that you are using to connect to your Azure Local.
stack-hci-vm extension
Check if there is a version of the extension installed on the client. Run the following command:az extension list --output table
Check if there is a version of the extension installed on the client. Run the following command:
az extension list --output table
az extension list --output table
If there is an older version installed, remove it and install the new version. Run the following command:az extension remove --name "stack-hci-vm"
If there is an older version installed, remove it and install the new version. Run the following command:
az extension remove --name "stack-hci-vm"
az extension remove --name "stack-hci-vm"
To install the extension, run the following command:az extension add --name "stack-hci-vm" --version "<version>"
To install the extension, run the following command:
az extension add --name "stack-hci-vm" --version "<version>"
az extension add --name "stack-hci-vm" --version "<version>"
To verify that the extension is installed, use thelistcommand again.
To verify that the extension is installed, use thelistcommand again.
list
Next steps
Assign RBAC role for Azure Local VMs.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources