Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Synapse Link for SQL?
Article
2024-11-20
6 contributors
In this article
Azure Synapse Link for SQL enables near real time analytics over operational data in Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022. With a seamless integration between operational stores including Azure SQL Database and SQL Server 2022 and Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure Synapse Link for SQL enables you to run analytics, business intelligence and machine learning scenarios on your operational data with minimum impact on source databases with a new change feed technology.
The following image shows the Azure Synapse Link integration with Azure SQL DB, SQL Server 2022, and Azure Synapse Analytics:

Azure Synapse Link for SQL provides fully managed and turnkey experience for you to land operational data in Azure Synapse Analytics dedicated SQL pools. It does this by continuously replicating the data from Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022 with full consistency. By using Azure Synapse Link for SQL, you can get the following benefits:
Minimum impact on operational workloadWith the new change feed technology in Azure SQL Database and SQL Server 2022, Azure Synapse Link for SQL can automatically extract incremental changes from Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022. It then replicates to Azure Synapse Analytics dedicated SQL pool with minimal impact on the operational workload.
Minimum impact on operational workloadWith the new change feed technology in Azure SQL Database and SQL Server 2022, Azure Synapse Link for SQL can automatically extract incremental changes from Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022. It then replicates to Azure Synapse Analytics dedicated SQL pool with minimal impact on the operational workload.
Reduced complexity with No ETL jobs to manageAfter selecting your operational database and tables, updates made to the operational data in Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022 are visible in the Azure Synapse Analytics dedicated SQL pool. They're available in near real-time with no ETL or data integration logic. You can focus on analytical and reporting logic against operational data via all the capabilities within Azure Synapse Analytics.
Reduced complexity with No ETL jobs to manageAfter selecting your operational database and tables, updates made to the operational data in Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022 are visible in the Azure Synapse Analytics dedicated SQL pool. They're available in near real-time with no ETL or data integration logic. You can focus on analytical and reporting logic against operational data via all the capabilities within Azure Synapse Analytics.
Near real-time insights into your operational dataYou can now get rich insights by analyzing operational data in Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022 in near real-time to enable new business scenarios including operational BI reporting, real time scoring and personalization, or supply chain forecasting etc. via Azure Synapse Link for SQL.
Near real-time insights into your operational dataYou can now get rich insights by analyzing operational data in Azure SQL Database or SQL Server 2022 in near real-time to enable new business scenarios including operational BI reporting, real time scoring and personalization, or supply chain forecasting etc. via Azure Synapse Link for SQL.
Related content
Azure Synapse Link for Azure SQL Databaseand how toconfigure Azure Synapse Link for Azure SQL Database.
Azure Synapse Link for SQL Server 2022and how toconfigure Azure Synapse Link for SQL Server 2022.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources