Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Quotas overview
Article
2024-09-19
3 contributors
In this article
Many Azure services have quotas, which are the assigned number of resources for your Azure subscription. Each quota represents a specific countable resource, such as the number of virtual machines you can create, the number of storage accounts you can use concurrently, the number of networking resources you can consume, or the number of API calls to a particular service you can make.
The concept of quotas is designed to help protect customers from things like inaccurately resourced deployments and mistaken consumption. For Azure, it helps minimize risks from deceptive or inappropriate consumption and unexpected demand. Quotas are set and enforced in the scope of thesubscription.
Quotas or limits?
Quotas were previously referred to as limits. Quotas do have limits, but the limits are variable and dependent on many factors. Each subscription has a default value for each quota.
Note
There is no cost associated with requesting a quota increase. Costs are incurred based on resource usage, not the quotas themselves.
Usage Alerts
The Quotas page allows you toMonitor & Create Alertsfor specific Quotas, enabling you to receive notifications when the usage reaches predefined thresholds.
Adjustable and non-adjustable quotas
Quotas can be adjustable or non-adjustable.
Adjustable quotas: Quotas for which you can request quota increases fall into this category. Each subscription has a default quota value for each quota. You can request an increase for an adjustable quota from theAzure HomeMy quotaspage, providing an amount or usage percentage and submitting it directly. This is the quickest way to increase quotas.
Non-adjustable quotas: These are quotas which have a hard limit, usually determined by the scope of the subscription. To make changes, you must submit a support request, and the Azure support team will help provide solutions.
Work with quotas
Different entry points, data views, actions, and programming options are available, depending on your organization and administrator preferences.
Next steps
Learn more aboutviewing quotas in the Azure portal.
Learn more aboutMonitoring & Creating Alertsfor Quota usages.
Learn how to request increases forVM-family vCPU quotas,vCPU quotas by region, andspot vCPU quotas.
Learn aboutAzure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources