Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft Sentinel data connectors
Article
2024-11-27
17 contributors
Applies to: Microsoft Sentinel in the Azure portal, Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal
In this article
After you onboard Microsoft Sentinel into your workspace, use data connectors to start ingesting your data into Microsoft Sentinel. Microsoft Sentinel comes with many out of the box connectors for Microsoft services, which integrate in real time. For example, the Microsoft Defender XDR connector is a service-to-service connector that integrates data from Office 365, Microsoft Entra ID, Microsoft Defender for Identity, and Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps.
Built-in connectors enable connection to the broader security ecosystem for non-Microsoft products. For example, use Syslog, Common Event Format (CEF), or REST APIs to connect your data sources with Microsoft Sentinel.
Note
For information about feature availability in US Government clouds, see the Microsoft Sentinel tables inCloud feature availability for US Government customers.
Important
Microsoft Sentinel is generally available within Microsoft's unified security operations platform in the Microsoft Defender portal, including for customers without Microsoft Defender XDR or an E5 license. For more information, seeMicrosoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal.

Data connectors provided with solutions
Microsoft Sentinel solutions provide packaged security content, including data connectors, workbooks, analytics rules, playbooks, and more. When you deploy a solution with a data connector, you get the data connector together with related content in the same deployment.
The Microsoft SentinelData connectorspage lists the installed or in-use data connectors.
Azure portal
Defender portal


To add more data connectors, install the solution associated with the data connector from theContent Hub. For more information, see the following articles:
Find your Microsoft Sentinel data connector
About Microsoft Sentinel content and solutions
Discover and manage Microsoft Sentinel out-of-the-box content
Microsoft Sentinel content hub catalog
Advanced Security Information Model (ASIM) based domain solutions for Microsoft Sentinel
Create custom connectors
If you're unable to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel using any of the existing solutions available, consider creating your own data source connector. For example, many security solutions provide a set of APIs for retrieving log files and other security data from their product or service. Those APIs connect to Microsoft Sentinel with one of the following methods:
The data source APIs are configured with theCodeless Connector Platform.
The data connector uses the Log Ingestion API for Azure Monitor as part of anAzure FunctionorLogic App.
You can also use Azure Monitor Agent directly or Logstash to create your custom connector. For more information, seeResources for creating Microsoft Sentinel custom connectors.
Agent-based integration for data connectors
Microsoft Sentinel can use agents provided by the Azure Monitor service (on which Microsoft Sentinel is based) to collect data from any data source that can perform real-time log streaming. For example, most on-premises data sources connect by using agent-based integration.
The following sections describe the different types of Microsoft Sentinel agent-based data connectors. To configure connections using agent-based mechanisms, follow the steps in each Microsoft Sentinel data connector page.

Syslog and Common Event Format (CEF)
You can stream events from Linux-based, Syslog-supporting devices into Microsoft Sentinel by using the Azure Monitor Agent (AMA). Log formats vary, but many sources support CEF-based formatting. Depending on the device type, the agent is installed either directly on the device, or on a dedicated Linux-based log forwarder. The AMA receives plain Syslog or CEF event messages from the Syslog daemon over UDP. The Syslog daemon forwards events to the agent internally, communicating over TCP or UDS (Unix Domain Sockets), depending on the version. The AMA then transmits these events to the Microsoft Sentinel workspace.
Here's a simple flow that shows how Microsoft Sentinel streams Syslog data.
The device's built-in Syslog daemon collects local events of the specified types, and forwards the events locally to the agent.
The agent streams the events to your Log Analytics workspace.
After successful configuration, Syslog messages appear in the Log AnalyticsSyslogtable, and CEF messages in theCommonSecurityLogtable.
For more information, seeSyslog and Common Event Format (CEF) via AMA connectors for Microsoft Sentinel.
Custom logs
For some data sources, you can collect logs as files on Windows or Linux computers using the Log Analytics custom log collection agent.
To connect using the Log Analytics custom log collection agent, follow the steps in each Microsoft Sentinel data connector page. After successful configuration, the data appears in custom tables.
For more information, seeCustom Logs via AMA data connector - Configure data ingestion to Microsoft Sentinel from specific applications.
Service-to-service integration for data connectors
Microsoft Sentinel uses the Azure foundation to provide out-of-the-box service-to-service support for Microsoft services and Amazon Web Services.
For more information, see the following articles:
Connect Microsoft Sentinel to Azure, Windows, Microsoft, and Amazon services
Find your Microsoft Sentinel data connector
Data connector support
Both Microsoft and other organizations author Microsoft Sentinel data connectors. Each data connector has one of the following support types listed on the data connector page in Microsoft Sentinel.
Data connectors for data sources where Microsoft is the data provider and author.
Some Microsoft-authored data connectors for non-Microsoft data sources.
For more information, seeFind support for a data connector.
Next steps
For more information about data connectors, see the following articles.
Connect your data sources to Microsoft Sentinel by using data connectors
Find your Microsoft Sentinel data connector
Resources for creating Microsoft Sentinel custom connectors
For a basic Infrastructure as Code (IaC) reference of Bicep, Azure Resource Manager, and Terraform to deploy data connectors in Microsoft Sentinel, seeMicrosoft Sentinel data connector IaC reference.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources