Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
NIST authentication basics
Article
2023-10-23
11 contributors
In this article
Use the information in this article to learn the terminology associated with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines. In addition, the concepts of Trusted Platform Module (TPM) technology and authentication factors are defined.
Terminology
Use the following table to understand NIST terminology.
About Trusted Platform Module technology
TPM has hardware-based security-related functions: A TPM chip, or hardware TPM, is a secure cryptographic processor that helps with generating, storing, and limiting the use of cryptographic keys.
For information on TPMs and Windows, seeTrusted Platform Module.
Note
A software TPM is an emulator that mimics hardware TPM functionality.
Authentication factors and their strengths
You can group authentication factors into three categories:

Authentication factor strength is determined by how sure you are it's something only the subscriber is, knows, or has. The NIST organization provides limited guidance on authentication factor strength. Use the information in the following section to learn how Microsoft assesses strengths.
Something you know
Passwords are the most common known thing, and represent the largest attack surface. The following mitigations improve confidence in the subscriber. They're effective at preventing password attacks like brute-force, eavesdropping, and social engineering:
Password complexity requirements
Password complexity requirements
Banned passwords
Banned passwords
Leaked credentials identification
Leaked credentials identification
Secure hashed storage
Secure hashed storage
Account lockout
Account lockout
Something you have
The strength of something you have is based on the likelihood of the subscriber keeping it in their possession, without an attacker gaining access to it. For example, when protecting against internal threats, a personal mobile device or hardware key has higher affinity. The device, or hardware key, is more secure than a desktop computer in an office.
Something you are
When determining requirements for something you are, consider how easy it is for an attacker to obtain, or spoof something like a biometric. NIST is drafting a framework for biometrics, however currently doesn't accept biometrics as a single factor. It must be part of multi-factor authentication (MFA). This precaution is because biometrics don't always provide an exact match, as passwords do. For more information, seeStrength of Function for Authenticators – Biometrics (SOFA-B).
SOFA-B framework to quantify biometrics strength:
False match rate
False fail rate
Presentation attack detection error rate
Effort required to perform an attack
Single-factor authentication
You can implement single-factor authentication by using an authenticator that verifies something you know, or are. A something-you-are factor is accepted as authentication, but it's not accepted solely as an authenticator.

Multi-factor authentication
You can implement MFA by using an MFA authenticator or two single-factor authenticators. An MFA authenticator requires two authentication factors for a single authentication transaction.
MFA with two single-factor authenticators
MFA requires two authentication factors, which can be independent. For example:
Memorized secret (password) and out of band (SMS)
Memorized secret (password) and out of band (SMS)
Memorized secret (password) and one-time password (hardware or software)
Memorized secret (password) and one-time password (hardware or software)
These methods enable two independent authentication transactions with Microsoft Entra ID.

MFA with one multi-factor authenticator
Multifactor authentication requires one factor (something you know, or are) to unlock a second factor. This user experience is easier than multiple independent authenticators.

One example is the Microsoft Authenticator app, in passwordless mode: the user access to a secured resource (relying party), and receives notification on the Authenticator app. The user provides a biometric (something you are) or a PIN (something you know). This factor unlocks the cryptographic key on the phone (something you have), which the verifier validates.
Next steps
NIST overview
Learn about AALs
Authentication basics
NIST authenticator types
Achieving NIST AAL1 by using Microsoft Entra ID
Achieving NIST AAL2 by using Microsoft Entra ID
Achieving NIST AAL3 by using Microsoft Entra ID
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources