CI/CD for AKS apps with Azure Pipelines
Important
Microservices with AKS and Azure DevOps is a variant ofDesign a CI/CD pipeline using Azure DevOps. This article focuses on the AKS-specific facets of deploying AKS applications with Azure Pipelines.
Potential use cases
Use Azure Pipelines to deploy AKS applications.
Architecture

Architecture diagram of an Azure pipeline. The diagram shows the following steps: 1. An engineer pushing code changes to an Azure DevOps Git repository. 2. An Azure DevOps PR pipeline is getting triggered. This pipeline shows the following tasks: linting, restoring, building, and unit tests. 3. An Azure DevOps CI pipeline is getting triggered. This pipeline shows the following tasks: get secrets, linting, restore, build, unit tests, integration tests, publishing build artifacts and publishing container images. 3. A container image being published to a non-production Azure Container Registry. 4. An Azure DevOps CD pipeline is getting triggered. This pipeline shows the following tasks: deploy to staging, acceptance tests, promote container image, manual intervention, and release. 5. Shows the CD pipeline deploying to a staging environment. 6. Shows the container image being promoted to the production Azure Container Registry. 7 Shows the CD pipeline released to a production environment. 8. Shows Container Insights forwarding telemetry to Azure Monitor. 9. Shows an operator monitoring the pipeline, taking advantage of Azure Monitor, Azure Application Insights and Azure Analytics Workspace.

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Dataflow
A pull request (PR) to Azure Repos Git triggers a PR pipeline. This pipeline runs fast quality checks such as linting, building, and unit testing the code. If any of the checks fail, the PR doesn't merge. The result of a successful run of this pipeline is a successful merge of the PR.
A merge to Azure Repos Git triggers a CI pipeline. This pipeline runs the same tasks as the PR pipeline with some important additions. The CI pipeline runs integration tests. These tests require secrets, so this pipeline gets those secrets from Azure Key Vault.
The result of a successful run of this pipeline is the creation and publishing of a container image in a non-production Azure Container Registry.
The completion of the CI pipelinetriggers the CD pipeline.
The CD pipeline deploys a YAML template to the staging AKS environment. The template specifies the container image from the non-production environment. The pipeline then performs acceptance tests against the staging environment to validate the deployment. A manual validation task is run if the tests succeed, requiring a person to validate the deployment and resume the pipeline. The manual validation step is optional. Some organizations will automatically deploy.
If the manual intervention is resumed, the CD pipeline promotes the image from the non-production Azure Container Registry to the production registry.
The CD pipeline deploys a YAML template to the production AKS environment. The template specifies the container image from the production environment.
Container Insights periodically forwards performance metrics, inventory data, and health state information from container hosts and containers to Azure Monitor.
Azure Monitor collects observability data such as logs and metrics so that an operator can analyze health, performance, and usage data. Application Insights collects all application-specific monitoring data, such as traces. Azure Log Analytics is used to store all that data.
Components
Container Insightscollects logs and metrics and logs and forwards them to Azure Monitor.
Azure Container Registryis a managed, private container registry service on Azure. Use Container Registry to store private container images.
Azure Kubernetes Serviceis a managed Kubernetes service where Azure handles critical tasks, like health monitoring and maintenance.
Defender for DevOpsperforms static analysis and helps you gain visibility of security postures across multiple pipelines in AKS development and deployment.
Next steps
To learn about the AKS product roadmap, seeAzure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Roadmap on GitHub.
If you need a refresher in Kubernetes, complete theIntroduction to Kubernetes on Azure learning path.
Related resources
To learn about hosting Microservices on AKS, seeMicroservices architecture on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
Follow theAzure Kubernetes Service solution journey.