Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Bring groups into Privileged Identity Management
Article
2025-01-29
14 contributors
In this article
In Microsoft Entra ID, you can use Privileged Identity Management (PIM) to manage just-in-time membership in the group or just-in-time ownership of the group. Groups can be used to provide access to Microsoft Entra roles, Azure roles, and various other scenarios. To manage a Microsoft Entra group in PIM, you must bring it under management in PIM.
Identify groups to manage
Before starting, you need a Microsoft Entra Security group or Microsoft 365 group. To learn more about group management in Microsoft Entra ID, seeManage Microsoft Entra groups and group membership.
Dynamic groups and groups synchronized from on-premises environment can't be managed in PIM for Groups.
You need appropriate permissions to bring groups in Microsoft Entra PIM. For role-assignable groups, you need to have at least the Privileged Role Administrator role or be an Owner of the group. For non-role-assignable groups, you need to have at least the Directory Writer, Groups Administrator, Identity Governance Administrator, User Administrator role, or be an Owner of the group. Role assignments for administrators should be scoped at directory level (not administrative unit level).
Note
Other roles with permissions to manage groups (such as Exchange Administrators for non-role-assignable Microsoft 365 groups) and administrators with assignments scoped at administrative unit level can manage groups through Groups API/UX and override changes made in Microsoft Entra PIM.
Sign in to theMicrosoft Entra admin centeras at least aPrivileged Role Administrator.
Sign in to theMicrosoft Entra admin centeras at least aPrivileged Role Administrator.
Browse toID Governance>Privileged Identity Management>Groups.
Browse toID Governance>Privileged Identity Management>Groups.
Here you can view groups that are already enabled for PIM for Groups.
Here you can view groups that are already enabled for PIM for Groups.

SelectDiscover groupsand select a group that you want to bring under management with PIM.
SelectDiscover groupsand select a group that you want to bring under management with PIM.

SelectManage groupsandOK.
SelectManage groupsandOK.
SelectGroupsto return to the list of groups enabled in PIM for Groups.
SelectGroupsto return to the list of groups enabled in PIM for Groups.
Or, you can use the Groups pane to bring group under Privileged Identity Management.

Important
Once a group is managed, it can't be taken out of management. This prevents another resource administrator from removing PIM settings. If a group is deleted from Microsoft Entra ID, it may take up to 24 hours for the group to be removed from thePIM for Groupsoption.
Next steps
Assign eligibility for a group in Privileged Identity Management
Activate your group membership or ownership in Privileged Identity Management
Approve activation requests for group members and owners
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources