Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Web applications architecture design
Article
2025-02-24
8 contributors
In this article
Today's web apps are expected to be available all day, every day from anywhere in the world, and usable from virtually any device or screen size. Web applications must be secure, flexible, and scalable to meet spikes in demand.
This article provides an overview of Azure web app technologies, guidance, solution ideas, and reference architectures.
Azure provides a wide range of tools and capabilities for creating, hosting, and monitoring web apps. These are just some of the key web app services available in Azure:
Azure App Serviceenables you to easily create enterprise-ready web and mobile apps for any platform or device and deploy them on a scalable cloud infrastructure.
Azure Web Application Firewallprovides powerful protection for web apps.
Azure Monitorprovides full observability into your applications, infrastructure, and network. Monitor includesApplication Insights, which provides application performance management and monitoring for live web apps.
Azure SignalR Serviceenables you to easily add real-time web functionalities.
Static Web Appsprovides streamlined full-stack development, from source code to global high availability.
Web App for Containersenables you to run containerized web apps on Windows and Linux.
Azure Service Busenables you to integrate with other web apps using loosely coupled event-driven patterns.
Introduction to web apps on Azure
If you're new to creating and hosting web apps on Azure, the best way to learn more is withMicrosoft Learn training. This free online platform provides interactive training for Microsoft products and more.
These are a few good starting points to consider:
Create Azure App Service web apps
Deploy and run a containerized web app with Azure App Service
Azure Static Web Apps
Path to production
Consider these patterns, guidelines, and architectures as you plan and implement your deployment:
Basic web application
Baseline zone-redundant web application
Common web application architectures
Design principles for Azure applications
Enterprise deployment using App Services Environment
High availability enterprise deployment using App Services Environment
Best practices
For a good overview, seeCharacteristics of modern web applications.
For information specific to Azure App Service, see:
Azure App Service and operational excellence
App Service deployment best practices
Security recommendations for App Service
Azure security baseline for App Service
Web app architectures
The following sections, organized by category, provide links to sample web app architectures.
E-commerce
Intelligent product search engine for e-commerce
Scalable e-commerce web app
Modernization
Choose between traditional web apps and single-page apps
ASP.NET architectural principles
Common client-side web technologies
Development process for Azure
Azure hosting recommendations for ASP.NET Core web apps
Multi-tier apps
Multi-tier web application built for HA/DR
Scalability
Baseline web application with zone redundancy
Security
Improved-security access to multitenant web apps from an on-premises network
Protect APIs with Application Gateway and API Management
SharePoint
Highly available SharePoint farm
Stay current with web development
Get the latestupdates on Azure web app products and features.
Additional resources
Example solutions
Here are some additional implementations to consider:
App Service networking features
Migrate a web app using Azure APIM
Serverless web application
AWS or Google Cloud professionals
AWS to Azure services comparison - Web applications
Google Cloud to Azure services comparison - Application services
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources