Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Use queries in Log Analytics
Article
2024-10-06
8 contributors
In this article
When you open Log Analytics, you can access existing log queries. You can either run these queries without modification or use them as a starting point for your own queries. The available queries include examples provided by Azure Monitor and queries saved by your organization. This article describes the queries that are available and how you can discover and use them.
Permissions required
You must haveMicrosoft.OperationalInsights/workspaces/query/*/readpermissions to the Log Analytics workspaces you query, as provided by theLog Analytics Reader built-in role, for example.
Microsoft.OperationalInsights/workspaces/query/*/read
Queries interface
Select queries from the query interface, which is available from two different locations in Log Analytics.
Queries dialog
When you open Log Analytics, theQueriesdialog automatically appears. If you don't want this dialog to automatically appear, turn off theAlways show Queriestoggle.

Each query is represented by a card. You can quickly scan through the queries to find what you need. You can run the query directly from the dialog or choose to load it to the query editor for modification.
You can also access it by selectingQueriesin the upper-right corner.

Query sidebar
You can access the same functionality of the dialog experience from theQueriespane on the left sidebar of Log Analytics. Hover over a query name to get the query description and more functionality.

Find and filter queries
The options in this section are available in both the dialog and sidebar query experience, but with a slightly different user interface.
Group by
Filter
Combine group by and filter
Change the grouping of the queries by selecting thegroup bydropdown list. The grouping values also act as an active table of contents. Selecting one of the values on the left side of the screen scrolls theQueriesview directly to the item selected. If your organization created query packs with tags, the custom tags will be included in this list.

You can also filter the queries according to thegroup byvalues mentioned earlier. In theExample queriesdialog, the filters are found at the top.

The filter and group by functionalities are designed to work in tandem. They provide flexibility in how queries are arranged. For example, if you're using a resource group with multiple resources, you might want to filter down to a specific resource type and arrange the resulting queries by topic.
Query properties
Each query has multiple properties that help you group and find them. These properties are available for sorting and filtering. For more information, seeFind and filter queries.
You can define several of them when yousave your own query. The types of properties are:
View query properties
From theQueriespane on the left sidebar of Log Analytics, hover over a query name to see its properties.

Favorites
You can identify frequently used queries as favorites to give you quicker access. Select the star next to the query to add it toFavorites. View your favorite queries from theFavoritesoption in the query interface.
Types of queries
The query interface is populated with the following types of queries:
Tip
Legacy queries are only available in a Log Analytics workspace.
Effect of query scope
The queries that are available when you open Log Analytics are determined by the currentquery scope. For example:
Tip
The more resources you have in your scope, the longer the time it takes for the portal to filter and show theQueriesdialog.
Next steps
Get started with KQL queries
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources