Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Machine Learning capabilities in Azure Synapse Analytics
Article
2025-01-01
9 contributors
In this article
Azure Synapse Analytics offers various machine learning capabilities. This article provides an overview of how you can apply Machine Learning in the context of Azure Synapse.
This overview covers the different capabilities in Synapse related to machine learning, from a data science process perspective.
You might be familiar with how a typical data science process looks. It's a well-known process, which most machine learning projects follow.
At a high level, the process contains the following steps:
Business understanding (not discussed in this article)
Data acquisition and understanding
Modeling
Model deployment and scoring
This article describes the Azure Synapse machine learning capabilities in different analytics engines, from a data science process perspective. For each step in the data science process, the Azure Synapse capabilities that can help are summarized.
Data acquisition and understanding
Most machine learning projects involve well-established steps, and one of these steps is to access and understand the data.
Data source and pipelines
Thanks toAzure Data Factory, a natively integrated part of Azure Synapse, there's a powerful set of tools available for data ingestion and data orchestration pipelines. This allows you to easily build data pipelines to access and transform the data into a format that can be consumed for machine learning.Learn more about data pipelinesin Synapse.
Data preparation and exploration/visualization
An important part of the machine learning process is to understand the data by exploration and visualizations.
Depending on where the data is stored, Synapse offers a set of different tools to explore and prepare it for analytics and machine learning. One of the quickest ways to get started with data exploration is using Apache Spark or serverless SQL pools directly over data in the data lake.
Apache Spark for Azure Synapseoffers capabilities to transform, prepare, and explore your data at scale. These spark pools offer tools like PySpark/Python, Scala, and .NET for data processing at scale. Using powerful visualization libraries, the data exploration experience can be enhanced to help understand the data better.Learn more about how to explore and visualize data in Synapse using Spark.
Apache Spark for Azure Synapseoffers capabilities to transform, prepare, and explore your data at scale. These spark pools offer tools like PySpark/Python, Scala, and .NET for data processing at scale. Using powerful visualization libraries, the data exploration experience can be enhanced to help understand the data better.Learn more about how to explore and visualize data in Synapse using Spark.
Serverless SQL poolsoffer a way to explore data using TSQL directly over the data lake. Serverless SQL pools also offer some built-in visualizations in Synapse Studio.Learn more about how to explore data with serverless SQL pools.
Serverless SQL poolsoffer a way to explore data using TSQL directly over the data lake. Serverless SQL pools also offer some built-in visualizations in Synapse Studio.Learn more about how to explore data with serverless SQL pools.
Modeling
In Azure Synapse, training machine learning models can be performed on the Apache Spark Pools with tools like PySpark/Python, Scala, or .NET.
Train models on Spark Pools with MLlib
Machine learning models can be trained with help from various algorithms and libraries.Spark MLliboffers scalable machine learning algorithms that can help solving most classical machine learning problems. For a tutorial on how to train a model using MLlib in Synapse, seeBuild a machine learning app with Apache Spark MLlib and Azure Synapse Analytics.
In addition to MLlib, popular libraries such asScikit Learncan also be used to develop models. SeeManage libraries for Apache Spark in Azure Synapse Analyticsfor details on how to install libraries on Synapse Spark Pools.
Model deployment and scoring
Models that have been trained either in Azure Synapse or outside Azure Synapse can easily be used for batch scoring. Currently in Synapse, there are two ways in which you can run batch scoring.
You can use theTSQL PREDICT functionin Synapse SQL pools to run your predictions right where your data lives. This powerful and scalable function allows you to enrich your data without moving any data out of your data warehouse. A newguided machine learning model experience in Synapse Studiowas introduced where you can deploy an ONNX model from the Azure Machine Learning model registry in Synapse SQL Pools for batch scoring using PREDICT.
You can use theTSQL PREDICT functionin Synapse SQL pools to run your predictions right where your data lives. This powerful and scalable function allows you to enrich your data without moving any data out of your data warehouse. A newguided machine learning model experience in Synapse Studiowas introduced where you can deploy an ONNX model from the Azure Machine Learning model registry in Synapse SQL Pools for batch scoring using PREDICT.
Another option for batch scoring machine learning models in Azure Synapse is to use the Apache Spark Pools for Azure Synapse. Depending on the libraries used to train the models, you can use a code experience to run your batch scoring.
Another option for batch scoring machine learning models in Azure Synapse is to use the Apache Spark Pools for Azure Synapse. Depending on the libraries used to train the models, you can use a code experience to run your batch scoring.
SynapseML
SynapseML (previously known as MMLSpark), is an open-source library that simplifies the creation of massively scalable machine learning (ML) pipelines. It's an ecosystem of tools used to expand the Apache Spark framework in several new directions. SynapseML unifies several existing machine learning frameworks and new Microsoft algorithms into a single, scalable API that’s usable across Python, R, Scala, .NET, and Java. To learn more, see thekey features of SynapseML.
Related content
Create a workspace
Quickstart: Create a new Azure Machine Learning linked service in Synapse
Tutorial: Machine learning model scoring wizard - dedicated SQL pool
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources