Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What SAP on Azure offerings are available?
Article
2024-08-22
8 contributors
In this article
There are multiple Microsoft Azure offerings for running and managing your SAP systems. These offerings range from traditional Azure virtual machine (VM) offerings, to top-level Azure services, to tools that integrate with other Azure services or external products.
SAP on Azure VM workloads
You can run SAP workloads on the Azure platform using different Azure Virtual Machines (Azure VMs) offerings. Azure iscertified for multiple SAP products, including SAP HANA and SAP NetWeaver products.
For more information, see theSAP on Azure VM workloadsdocumentation.
SAP Integration with Microsoft Services
In addition to the capabilities to run SAP IaaS and SaaS workloads on Azure, Microsoft offers various capabilities, scenarios, best-practice guides, and tutorials to integrate SAP workloads running anywhere with other Microsoft products and services. Among them are popular services such as Microsoft Entra ID, Exchange Online, Power Platform and Power BI, Azure Integration Services, Excel, SAP Business Technology Platform, SAP Analytics Cloud, SAP Data Warehouse Cloud, and SAP Success Factors to name a few.
For more information, see theSAP Integration with Microsoft Servicesdocumentation.
SAP HANA on Azure (Large Instances)
SAP HANA on Azure (Large Instances) is a solution that provides VMs for deploying and running SAP HANA.
For more information, see theSAP HANA on Azure (Large Instances)documentation.
Note
This offering is no longer accepting new customers. For alternatives, please check the offers of HANA certified Azure VMs in theHANA Hardware Directory.
Azure Center for SAP solutions
Azure Center for SAP solutions is a service that makes SAP a top-level workload in Azure. This end-to-end solution allows you to create and run SAP systems as a unified workload on Azure. You can use this service through the Azure portal, a REST API, and the Azure CLI.
For more information, see theAzure Center for SAP solutionsdocumentation.
SAP on Azure deployment automation framework
The SAP on Azure deployment automation framework is an open-source orchestration tool for deploying, installing, and maintaining SAP environments.
For more information, see theSAP on Azure deployment automation frameworkdocumentation.
Azure Monitor for SAP solutions
Azure Monitor for SAP solutions is an Azure-native monitoring product for SAP landscapes that run on Azure, which uses specific parts of theAzure Monitorinfrastructure.
For more information, see theAzure Monitor for SAP solutionsdocumentation.
Next steps
SAP solutions on Azure
Get started with SAP and Azure integration scenarios
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources