Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Threat detection in Microsoft Sentinel
Article
2024-11-19
4 contributors
Applies to: Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal, Microsoft Sentinel in the Azure portal
In this article
Aftersetting up Microsoft Sentinel to collect data from all over your organization, you need to constantly dig through all that data to detect security threats to your environment. To accomplish this task, Microsoft Sentinel provides threat detection rules that run regularly, querying the collected data and analyzing it to discover threats. These rules come in a few different flavors and are collectively known asanalytics rules.
These rules generatealertswhen they find what they’re looking for. Alerts contain information about the events detected, such as theentities(users, devices, addresses, and other items) involved. Alerts are aggregated and correlated intoincidents—case files—that you canassign and investigateto learn the full extent of the detected threat and respond accordingly. You can also build predetermined, automated responses into the rules' own configuration.
You can create these rules from scratch, using thebuilt-in analytics rule wizard. However, Microsoft strongly encourages you to make use of the vast array ofanalytics rule templatesavailable to you through the manysolutions for Microsoft Sentinelprovided in the content hub. These templates are pre-built rule prototypes, designed by teams of security experts and analysts based on their knowledge of known threats, common attack vectors, and suspicious activity escalation chains. You activate rules from these templates to automatically search across your environment for any activity that looks suspicious. Many of the templates can be customized to search for specific types of events, or filter them out, according to your needs.
This article helps you understand how Microsoft Sentinel detects threats, and what happens next.
Important
Microsoft Sentinel is generally available within Microsoft's unified security operations platform in the Microsoft Defender portal, including for customers without Microsoft Defender XDR or an E5 license. For more information, seeMicrosoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal.
Types of analytics rules
You can view the analytics rules and templates available for you to use on theAnalyticspage of theConfigurationmenu in Microsoft Sentinel. The currentlyactive rulesare visible in one tab, andtemplatesto create new rules in another tab. A third tab displaysAnomalies, a special rule type described later in this article.
To find more rule templates than are currently displayed, go to theContent hubin Microsoft Sentinel to install the related product solutions or standalone content. Analytics rule templates are available with nearly every product solution in the content hub.
The following types of analytics rules and rule templates are available in Microsoft Sentinel:
Scheduled rules
Near-real-time (NRT) rules
Anomaly rules
Microsoft security rules
Besides the preceding rule types, there are some other specialized template types that can each create one instance of a rule, with limited configuration options:
Threat intelligence
Advanced multistage attack detection ("Fusion")
Machine learning (ML) behavior analytics

Scheduled rules
By far the most common type of analytics rule,Scheduledrules are based onKusto queriesthat are configured to run at regular intervals and examine raw data from a defined "lookback" period. If the number of results captured by the query passes the threshold configured in the rule, the rule produces an alert.
The queries inscheduled rule templateswere written by security and data science experts, either from Microsoft or from the vendor of the solution providing the template. Queries can perform complex statistical operations on their target data, revealing baselines and outliers in groups of events.
The query logic is displayed in the rule configuration. You can use the query logic and the scheduling and lookback settings as defined in the template, or customize them to create new rules. Alternatively, you can createentirely new rules from scratch.
Learn more aboutScheduled analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel.

Near-real-time (NRT) rules
NRT rules are a limited subset ofscheduled rules. They are designed to run once every minute, in order to supply you with information as up-to-the-minute as possible.
They function mostly like scheduled rules and are configured similarly, with some limitations.
Learn more aboutQuick threat detection with near-real-time (NRT) analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel.

Anomaly rules
Anomaly rules use machine learning to observe specific types of behaviors over a period of time to determine a baseline. Each rule has its own unique parameters and thresholds, appropriate to the behavior being analyzed. After the observation period is completed, the baseline is set. When the rule observes behaviors that exceed the boundaries set in the baseline, it flags those occurrences as anomalous.
While the configurations of out-of-the-box rules can't be changed or fine-tuned, you can duplicate a rule, and then change and fine-tune the duplicate. In such cases, run the duplicate inFlightingmode and the original concurrently inProductionmode. Then compare results, and switch the duplicate toProductionif and when its fine-tuning is to your liking.
Anomalies don't necessarily indicate malicious or even suspicious behavior by themselves. Therefore, anomaly rules don't generate their own alerts. Rather, they record the results of their analysis—the detected anomalies—in theAnomaliestable. You can query this table to provide context that improves your detections, investigations, and threat hunting.
For more information, seeUse customizable anomalies to detect threats in Microsoft SentinelandWork with anomaly detection analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel.
Microsoft security rules
While scheduled and NRT rules automatically create incidents for the alerts they generate, alerts generated in external services and ingested to Microsoft Sentinel don't create their own incidents. Microsoft security rules automatically create Microsoft Sentinel incidents from the alerts generated in other Microsoft security solutions, in real time. You can use Microsoft security templates to create new rules with similar logic.
Important
Microsoft security rules arenot availableif you have:
EnabledMicrosoft Defender XDR incident integration, or
Onboarded Microsoft Sentinel to theDefender portal.
In these scenarios, Microsoft Defender XDR creates the incidents instead.
Any such rules you had defined beforehand are automatically disabled.
For more information aboutMicrosoft securityincident creation rules, seeAutomatically create incidents from Microsoft security alerts.
Threat intelligence
Take advantage of threat intelligence produced by Microsoft to generate high fidelity alerts and incidents with theMicrosoft Threat Intelligence Analyticsrule. This unique rule isn't customizable, but when enabled, automatically matches Common Event Format (CEF) logs, Syslog data or Windows DNS events with domain, IP and URL threat indicators from Microsoft Threat Intelligence. Certain indicators contain more context information through MDTI (Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence).
For more information on how to enable this rule, seeUse matching analytics to detect threats.For more information on MDTI, seeWhat is Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence.
Advanced multistage attack detection (Fusion)
Microsoft Sentinel uses theFusion correlation engine, with its scalable machine learning algorithms, to detect advanced multistage attacks by correlating many low-fidelity alerts and events across multiple products into high-fidelity and actionable incidents. TheAdvanced multistage attack detectionrule is enabled by default. Because the logic is hidden and therefore not customizable, there can be only one rule with this template.
The Fusion engine can also correlate alerts produced byscheduled analytics ruleswith alerts from other systems, producing high-fidelity incidents as a result.
Important
TheAdvanced multistage attack detectionrule type isnot availableif you have:
EnabledMicrosoft Defender XDR incident integration, or
Onboarded Microsoft Sentinel to theDefender portal.
In these scenarios, Microsoft Defender XDR creates the incidents instead.
Also, some of theFusiondetection templates are currently inPREVIEW(seeAdvanced multistage attack detection in Microsoft Sentinelto see which ones). See theSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previewsfor additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Machine learning (ML) behavior analytics
Take advantage of Microsoft's proprietary machine learning algorithms to generate high fidelity alerts and incidents with theML Behavior Analyticsrules. These unique rules (currently inPreview) aren't customizable, but when enabled, detect specific anomalous SSH and RDP login behaviors based on IP and geolocation and user history information.
Access permissions for analytics rules
When you create an analytics rule, an access permissions token is applied to the rule and saved along with it. This token ensures that the rule can access the workspace that contains the data queried by the rule, and that this access is maintained even if the rule's creator loses access to that workspace.
There is one exception to this access, however: when a rule is created to access workspaces in other subscriptions or tenants, such as what happens in the case of an MSSP, Microsoft Sentinel takes extra security measures to prevent unauthorized access to customer data. For these kinds of rules, the credentials of the user that created the rule are applied to the rule instead of an independent access token, so that when the user no longer has access to the other subscription or tenant, the rule stops working.
If you operate Microsoft Sentinel in a cross-subscription or cross-tenant scenario, when one of your analysts or engineers loses access to a particular workspace, any rules created by that user stops working. In this situation, you get a health monitoring message regarding "insufficient access to resource", and the rule isauto-disabledafter having failed a certain number of times.
Export rules to an ARM template
You can easilyexport your rule to an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templateif you want to manage and deploy your rules as code. You can also import rules from template files in order to view and edit them in the user interface.
Next steps
Learn more aboutScheduled analytics rules in Microsoft SentinelandQuick threat detection with near-real-time (NRT) analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel.
Learn more aboutScheduled analytics rules in Microsoft SentinelandQuick threat detection with near-real-time (NRT) analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel.
To find more rule templates, seeDiscover and manage Microsoft Sentinel out-of-the-box content.
To find more rule templates, seeDiscover and manage Microsoft Sentinel out-of-the-box content.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources