Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Migration release checklist
Article
2024-04-10
4 contributors
In this article
This phase guides you through releasing your deployed workloads to production use. It includes the technical processes of taking your final migration steps, communicating to the business, making final change approvals, cleaning up resources, and learning from the migration.

Conduct the migration
When you reach this phase, you have your resources deployed into Azure, either as new resources with replicated data in a properly configured state or as a replicated server through a migration tool. From a technical perspective, all that remains to do is to start the final migration tasks and send traffic over to the new location.
However, you need to do more to make sure the migration is successful. Clear communication with the business and support teams is critical, as is finalizing activities, including a proper retrospective, after the migration.
Failure to communicate, test, or successfully migrate resources can create outages and business disruptions. A failure to decommission retired assets or optimize workloads can lead to a failure to achieve the business outcomes of the migration. To avoid these problems, you need to finish the migration strong.
Checklist
The following table gives an overview of the activities that are documented in this phase and the roles that are responsible for carrying out each activity.
Project Manager
Organizational Change Manager
Project Manager
Workload Business Owner
Workload Architect
User Acceptance Tester
Migration Architect
Migration Engineer
Workload Architect
Cloud Operations Manager
Project Manager
Workload Architect
Cloud Operations Manager
Next step
Now that you have a general understanding of the optimization process, you're ready to begin communicating the changes.
Change communication
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources