Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Replication to Azure SQL Database
Article
2024-11-19
10 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL DatabaseSQL database in Fabric
You can configure Azure SQL Database or Fabric SQL database as the push subscriber in a one-way transactional or snapshot replication topology from SQL Server and Azure SQL Managed Instance.
Note
This article describes the use oftransactional replicationto push data to Azure SQL Database or Fabric SQL database. This article applies equally to Azure SQL Database and Fabric SQL database unless otherwise noted.
It's unrelated toactive geo-replication, an Azure SQL Database feature that allows you to create complete readable replicas of individual databases.
Supported configurations
Azure SQL Database or Fabric SQL database can only be the push subscriber of a SQL Server publisher and distributor.
The SQL Server instance acting as publisher and/or distributor can be an instance ofSQL Server running on-premises, anAzure SQL Managed Instance, or an instance ofSQL Server running on an Azure virtual machine in the cloud.
The distribution database and the replication agents can't be placed on a database in Azure SQL Database.
Snapshotandone-way transactionalreplication are supported. Peer-to-peer transactional replication and merge replication aren't supported.
Versions
To successfully replicate to a database in Azure SQL Database, SQL Server publishers and distributors must be using (at least) one of the following versions:
Note
Attempting to configure replication using an unsupported version can result in error number MSSQL_REPL20084 (The process could not connect to Subscriber.) and MSSQL_REPL40532 (Cannot open server <name> requested by the login. The login failed.).
To use all the features of Azure SQL Database, you must be using the latest versions ofSQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)andSQL Server Data Tools.
Publishing to anyAzure SQL Databasefrom a SQL Server database is supported by the following versions of SQL Server:
SQL Server 2016 and greater
SQL Server 2014RTM CU10 (12.0.4427.24)orSP1 CU3 (12.0.2556.4)
SQL Server 2012SP2 CU8 (11.0.5634.1)orSP3 (11.0.6020.0)
Publishing toFabric SQL databasefrom a SQL Server database is supported by the following versions of SQL Server:
SQL Server 2022RTM CU12and greater
Types of replication
There are differenttypes of replication:
Remarks
Only push subscriptions to Azure SQL Database are supported.
Replication can be configured by usingSQL Server Management Studioor by executing Transact-SQL statements on the publisher. You can't configure replication by using the Azure portal.
To authenticate:Azure-Arc enabled SQL Serversallow replication to useMicrosoft Entra ID authentication.Replication can use Microsoft Entra ID authentication with aservice principalto connect to Fabric SQL database.Replication can only use SQL Server authentication logins to connect to Azure SQL Database.
Azure-Arc enabled SQL Serversallow replication to useMicrosoft Entra ID authentication.
Replication can use Microsoft Entra ID authentication with aservice principalto connect to Fabric SQL database.
Replication can only use SQL Server authentication logins to connect to Azure SQL Database.
Replicated tables must have a primary key.
You must have an existing Azure subscription.
The Azure SQL Database subscriber can be in any region.
A single publication on SQL Server can support both Azure SQL Database and SQL Server (on-premises and SQL Server in an Azure virtual machine) subscribers.
Replication management, monitoring, and troubleshooting must be performed from SQL Server rather than Azure SQL Database.
Only@subscriber_type = 0is supported insp_addsubscriptionfor SQL Database.
@subscriber_type = 0
sp_addsubscription
Azure SQL Database doesn't support bi-directional, immediate, updatable, or peer-to-peer replication.
Replication Architecture

Scenarios
Typical Replication Scenario
Create a transactional replication publication on a SQL Server database.
On SQL Server use theNew Subscription Wizardor Transact-SQL statements to create a push to subscription to Azure SQL Database.
With single and pooled databases in Azure SQL Database, the initial data set is a snapshot that is created by the Snapshot Agent and distributed and applied by the Distribution Agent. With a SQL Managed Instance publisher, you can also use a database backup to seed the Azure SQL Database subscriber.
Data migration scenario
Use transactional replication to replicate data from a SQL Server database to Azure SQL Database.
Redirect the client or middle-tier applications to update the database copy.
Stop updating the SQL Server version of the table and remove the publication.
Limitations
The following replication options aren't supported by Azure SQL Database:
Copy file groups association
Copy table partitioning schemes
Copy index partitioning schemes
Copy user defined statistics
Copy default bindings
Copy rule bindings
Copy fulltext indexes
Copy XML XSD
Copy XML indexes
Copy permissions
Copy spatial indexes
Copy filtered indexes
Copy data compression attribute
Copy sparse column attribute
Convert filestream to MAX data types
Convert hierarchyid to MAX data types
Convert spatial to MAX data types
Copy extended properties
Limitations to be determined
Copy collation
Execution in a serialized transaction of the SP
Examples
Create a publication and a push subscription. For more information, see:
Create a Publication
Create a Push Subscriptionby using the server name as the subscriber (for exampleN'azuresqldbdns.database.windows.net') and the Azure SQL Database name as the destination database (for exampleAdventureWorks).
See Also
Transactional replication
Create a Publication
Create a Push Subscription
Types of Replication
Monitoring (Replication)
Initialize a Subscription
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources