Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Add an identity provider to your Azure Active Directory B2C tenant
Article
2024-03-22
6 contributors
In this article
You can configure Azure AD B2C to allow users to sign in to your application with credentials from external social or enterprise identity providers (IdP). Azure AD B2C supports external identity providers like Facebook, Microsoft account, Google, X, and any identity provider that supports OAuth 1.0, OAuth 2.0, OpenID Connect, and SAML protocols.
With external identity provider federation, you can offer your consumers the ability to sign in with their existing social or enterprise accounts, without having to create a new account just for your application.
On the sign-up or sign-in page, Azure AD B2C presents a list of external identity providers the user can choose for sign-in. Once a user selects an external identity provider, they're redirected to the selected provider's website to complete their sign-in. After they successfully sign in, they're returned to Azure AD B2C for authentication with your application.

You can add identity providers that are supported by Azure Active Directory B2C (Azure AD B2C) to youruser flowsusing the Azure portal. You can also add identity providers to yourcustom policies.
Select an identity provider
You typically use only one identity provider in your applications, but you have the option to add more. The how-to articles below show you how to create the identity provider application, add the identity provider to your tenant, and add the identity provider to your user flow or custom policy.
AD FS
Amazon
Apple
Microsoft Entra ID (Single-tenant)
Microsoft Entra ID (Multi-tenant)
Azure AD B2C
eBay
Facebook
Generic identity provider
GitHub
ID.me
Google
LinkedIn
Microsoft Account
Mobile ID
PingOne(Ping Identity)
QQ
Salesforce
Salesforce (SAML protocol)
SwissID
X
WeChat
Weibo
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources