Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)
Article
2022-09-25
1 contributor
In this article
ITAR overview
The US Department of State has export control authority over defense articles, services, and related technologies under theInternational Traffic in Arms Regulations(ITAR) managed by theDirectorate of Defense Trade Controls(DDTC). Items under ITAR protection are documented on theUnited States Munitions List(USML). If you're a manufacturer, exporter, and broker of defense articles, services, and related technologies as defined on the USML, you must be registered with DDTC, must understand and abide by ITAR, and must self-certify that you operate in accordance with ITAR.
DDTCrevised the ITAR ruleseffective 25 March 2020 to align them more closely with the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). These ITAR revisions introduced an end-to-end data encryption carve-out that incorporated many of the same terms that the US Department of Commerce adopted in 2016 for the EAR. Specifically, the revised ITAR rules state that activities that don't constitute exports, re-exports, re-transfers, or temporary imports include (among other activities) the sending, taking, or storing of technical data that is 1) unclassified, 2) secured using end-to-end encryption, 3) secured using FIPS 140 compliant cryptographic modules as prescribed in the regulations, 4) not intentionally sent to a person in or stored in acountry proscribed in § 126.1or the Russian Federation, and 5) not sent from a country proscribed in § 126.1 or the Russian Federation. Moreover, DDTC clarified that data in-transit via the Internet isn't deemed to be stored. End-to-end encryption implies the data is kept encrypted at all times between the originator and intended recipient, and the means of decryption aren't provided to any third party.
Azure and ITAR
There is no ITAR compliance certification. However, if you're subject to ITAR, Azure, Azure Government, and Azure Government Secret can help you meet your ITAR compliance requirements.
Except for the Azure region in Hong Kong SAR, Azure datacenters aren't located in proscribed countries or in the Russian Federation. Azure services rely onFIPS 140validated cryptographic modules in the underlying operating system, and provide you withmany options for encrypting datain transit and at rest, including encryption key management usingAzure Key Vault. The Key Vault service can store encryption keys in FIPS 140 validated hardware security modules (HSMs) under your control, also known ascustomer-managed keys (CMK). Keys generated inside the Azure Key Vault HSMs aren't exportable – there can be no clear-text version of the key outside the HSMs. This binding is enforced by the underlying HSM.Azure Key Vault is designed, deployed, and operated such that Microsoft and its agents don't see or extract your cryptographic keys.For more information, seeHow does Azure Key Vault protect your keys?
Note
You're responsible for choosing the Azure regions for deploying your applications and data. Moreover, you're responsible for designing your applications to use end-to-end data encryption that meets ITAR requirements. Microsoft doesn't inspect, approve, or monitor your Azure applications.
Azure Government provides an extra layer of protection to customers through contractual commitments regarding storage of customer data in the United States and limiting potential access to systems processing customer data toscreened US persons.
For more information regarding ITAR, you should review:
Azure export controlsonline documentation
Microsoft Azure Export Controlswhitepaper
Applicability
Azure
Azure Government
Azure Government Secret
Office 365 and ITAR
For more information about Office 365 compliance, seeOffice 365 ITAR documentation.
Frequently asked questions
What should I do to comply with export control laws when using Azure?If you're a manufacturer, exporter, and broker of defense articles, services, and related technologies as defined on the USML, you must be registered with DDTC, must understand and abide by ITAR, and must self-certify that you operate in accordance with ITAR. You must carefully assess how your use of Azure may implicate US export controls and determine whether any of the data you want to use or store there may be subject to ITAR controls, and if so, what controls apply. To learn more about how Azure can help you ensure your full compliance with US export controls, review theMicrosoft Azure Export Controlswhitepaper.
What technical features does Azure provide to help customers meet their ITAR compliance obligations?The following Azure features are available to you to manage potential export control risks:
Ability to control data location– You have visibility as to where your data is stored, and robust tools to restrict data storage to a single geography, region, or country. For example, you may therefore ensure that data is stored in the United States or your country of choice and minimize transfer of controlled technology/technical data outside the target country. Customer data isn'tintentionally storedin a non-conforming location, consistent with the ITAR rules.
Control over access to data– You can know and control who can access your data and on what terms. Microsoft technical support personnel don't need and don't have default access to customer data. For those rare instances where resolving customer support requests requires elevated access to customer data,Customer Lockbox for Azureputs you in charge of approving or rejecting customer data access requests.
End-to-end encryption– Implies the data is kept encrypted at all times between the originator and intended recipient, and the means of decryption aren't provided to any third party. Azure relies onFIPS 140validated cryptographic modules in the underlying operating system, and provides you withmany options for encrypting datain transit and at rest, including encryption key management usingAzure Key Vault. The Key Vault service can store encryption keys in FIPS 140 validated hardware security modules (HSMs) under your control, also known ascustomer-managed keys (CMK). Azure Key Vault is designed, deployed, and operated such that Microsoft and its agentsdon't see or extract your cryptographic keys.
Tools and protocols to prevent unauthorized deemed export/re-export– Apart from the ITARend-to-end encryptionsafe harbor for physical storage locations, the use of encryption also helps protect against a potential deemed export (or deemed re-export), because even if a non-US person has access to the encrypted data, nothing is actually revealed to non-US person who can't read or understand the data while it is encrypted and thus there is noreleaseof any controlled data. However, ITAR requires some authorization before granting foreign persons with access information that would enable them to decrypt ITAR technical data. Azure offers a wide range of encryption capabilities and solutions, flexibility to choose among encryption options, and robust tools for managing encryption.
Are Microsoft technologies, products, and services subject to ITAR?In general, Microsoft technologies, products, and services aren't subject to ITAR and aren't listed on theUnites States Munitions List(USML).
What’s the difference between ITAR and the Export Administration Regulations (EAR)?The primary US export controls with the broadest application are the EAR, administered by the US Department of Commerce. The EAR is applicable to dual-use items that have both commercial and military applications, and to items with purely commercial applications.
The United States also has separate and more specialized export control regulations, such as the ITAR, that governs the most sensitive items and technology. Administered by the US Department of State, ITAR imposes controls on the export, temporary import, re-export, and transfer of many military, defense, and intelligence items – also known asdefense articles– including related technical data documented on theUnites States Munitions List(USML).
Should I use Azure or Azure Government for workloads that are subject to ITAR?You're wholly responsible for ensuring your own compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and should consult your legal advisor for questions regarding regulatory compliance. Azure and Azure Government have the same security controls in place, including the same provisions for data encryption in transit and at rest to support ITAR requirements. The cloud environment decision will rest with you based on your business requirements. Most US government agencies and their partners are best aligned with Azure Government, which provides an extra layer of protection to customers through contractual commitments regarding storage of customer data in the United States and limiting potential access to systems processing customer data toscreened US persons.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
What is Azure Government?
Explore Azure Government
Microsoft government solutions
Azure support for export controls
Microsoft Azure Export Controlswhitepaper
DDTC ITAR landing page
ITAR Title 22 CFR Part 120-130
United States Munitions List(USML)
DDTCrevised ITAR ruleeffective 25 March 2020
Title 22 CFR Part 126.1proscribed countries
Additional resources