Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Control access to Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) by using Microsoft Entra ID (preview)
Article
2023-10-11
5 contributors
In this article
You can use Microsoft Entra ID to authenticate requests to Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) APIs, like create device identity and invoke direct method. You can also use Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to authorize those same service APIs. By using these technologies together, you can grant permissions to access Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) APIs to a Microsoft Entra security principal. This security principal could be a user, group, or application service principal.
Authenticating access by using Microsoft Entra ID and controlling permissions by using Azure RBAC provides improved security and ease of use oversecurity tokens. To minimize potential security issues inherent in security tokens, we recommend that you use Microsoft Entra ID with your Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) whenever possible.
Note
Authentication with Microsoft Entra ID isn't supported for the Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS)device APIs(like register device or device registration status lookup). Usesymmetric keys,X.509orTPMto authenticate devices to Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS).
Authentication and authorization
When a Microsoft Entra security principal requests access to an Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) API, the principal's identity is firstauthenticated. For authentication, the request needs to contain an OAuth 2.0 access token at runtime. The resource name for requesting the token ishttps://azure-devices-provisioning.net. If the application runs in an Azure resource like an Azure VM, Azure Functions app, or Azure App Service app, it can be represented as amanaged identity.
https://azure-devices-provisioning.net
After the Microsoft Entra principal is authenticated, the next step isauthorization. In this step, Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) uses the Microsoft Entra role assignment service to determine what permissions the principal has. If the principal's permissions match the requested resource or API, Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) authorizes the request. So this step requires one or more Azure roles to be assigned to the security principal. Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) provides some built-in roles that have common groups of permissions.
Manage access to Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) by using Azure RBAC role assignment
With Microsoft Entra ID and RBAC, Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) requires the principal requesting the API to have the appropriate level of permission for authorization. To give the principal the permission, give it a role assignment.
If the principal is a user, group, or application service principal, follow the guidance inAssign Azure roles by using the Azure portal.
If the principal is a managed identity, follow the guidance inAssign a managed identity access to a resource by using the Azure portal.
To ensure least privilege, always assign the appropriate role at the lowest possibleresource scope, which is probably the Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) scope.
Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) provides the following Azure built-in roles for authorizing access to DPS APIs by using Microsoft Entra ID and RBAC:
You can also define custom roles to use with Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) by combining thepermissionsthat you need. For more information, seeCreate custom roles for Azure role-based access control.
Resource scope
Before you assign an Azure RBAC role to a security principal, determine the scope of access that the security principal should have. It's always best to grant only the narrowest possible scope. Azure RBAC roles defined at a broader scope are inherited by the resources beneath them.
This list describes the levels at which you can scope access to IoT Hub, starting with the narrowest scope:
The Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS).At this scope, a role assignment applies to the Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS). Role assignment at smaller scopes, like enrollment group or individual enrollment, isn't supported.
The resource group.At this scope, a role assignment applies to all IoT hubs in the resource group.
The subscription.At this scope, a role assignment applies to all IoT hubs in all resource groups in the subscription.
A management group.At this scope, a role assignment applies to all IoT hubs in all resource groups in all subscriptions in the management group.
Permissions for Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) APIs
The following table describes the permissions available for Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) API operations. To enable a client to call a particular operation, ensure that the client's assigned RBAC role offers sufficient permissions for the operation.
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/attestationmechanism/details/action
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/enrollmentGroups/read
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/enrollmentGroups/write
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/enrollmentGroups/delete
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/enrollments/read
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/enrollments/write
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/enrollments/delete
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/registrationStates/read
Microsoft.Devices/provisioningServices/registrationStates/delete
Azure IoT extension for Azure CLI
Most commands against Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS) support Microsoft Entra authentication. You can control the type of authentication used to run commands by using the--auth-typeparameter, which acceptskeyorloginvalues. Thekeyvalue is the default.
--auth-type
key
login
key
When--auth-typehas thekeyvalue, the CLI automatically discovers a suitable policy when it interacts with Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS).
When--auth-typehas thekeyvalue, the CLI automatically discovers a suitable policy when it interacts with Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (DPS).
--auth-type
key
When--auth-typehas theloginvalue, an access token from the Azure CLI logged in the principal is used for the operation.
When--auth-typehas theloginvalue, an access token from the Azure CLI logged in the principal is used for the operation.
--auth-type
login
The following commands currently support--auth-type:az iot dps enrollmentaz iot dps enrollment-groupaz iot dps registration
The following commands currently support--auth-type:
--auth-type
az iot dps enrollment
az iot dps enrollment
az iot dps enrollment-group
az iot dps enrollment-group
az iot dps registration
az iot dps registration
For more information, see theAzure IoT extension for Azure CLI release page.
SDKs and samples
Azure IoT SDKs for Node.js Provisioning ServiceSample
Sample
Azure IoT SDK for Java Preview ReleaseSample
Sample
•	Microsoft Azure IoT SDKs for .NET Preview Release

Microsoft Entra ID access from the Azure portal
Note
Microsoft Entra ID access from the Azure portal is currently not available during preview.
Next steps
For more information on the advantages of using Microsoft Entra ID in your application, seeIntegrating with Microsoft Entra ID.
For more information on requesting access tokens from Microsoft Entra ID for users and service principals, seeAuthentication scenarios for Microsoft Entra ID.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources