Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Review workload protection
Article
2025-02-26
6 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Defender for Cloud provides unified view into threat detection and protection for protected resources with the interactiveWorkload protectionsdashboard.

Defender for Cloud coverage
In theDefender for Cloud coveragesection of the dashboard, you can see the resources types in your subscription that are eligible for protection by Defender for Cloud. Wherever relevant, you can upgrade here as well. If you want to upgrade all possible eligible resources, selectUpgrade all.
Security alerts
TheSecurity alertssection shows alerts. When Defender for Cloud detects a threat in any area of your environment, it generates an alert. These alerts describe details of the affected resources, suggested remediation steps, and in some cases an option to trigger a logic app in response. Selecting anywhere in this graph opens theSecurity alerts page.
Advanced protection
Defender for Cloud includes many advanced threat protection capabilities for virtual machines, SQL databases, containers, web applications, your network, and more. In this advanced protection section, you can see the status of the resources in your selected subscriptions for each of these protections. Select any of them to go directly to the configuration area for that protection type.
Insights
Insights provide you with news, suggested reading, and high priority alerts that are relevant in your environment.
Prerequisite
The plan must be enabled at the subscription level to ensure proper functionality. Resources onboarded to Defender for Cloud at the resource level won’t be eligible for the capabilities available through the Workload protection blade.
Next steps
Learn aboutworkloads you can protect in Defender for Cloud
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources