Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What are Azure Extended Zones?
Article
2024-12-04
1 contributor
In this article
Azure Extended Zones are small-footprint extensions of Azure placed in metros, industry centers, or a specific jurisdiction to serve low latency and data residency workloads. Azure Extended Zones supports virtual machines (VMs), containers, storage, and a selected set of Azure services and can run latency-sensitive and throughput-intensive applications close to end users and within approved data residency boundaries.
Azure Extended Zones are part of the Microsoft global network that provides secure, reliable, high-bandwidth connectivity between applications that run on an Azure Extended Zone close to the user. Extended Zones address low latency and data residency by bringing all the goodness of the Azure ecosystem (access, user experience, automation, security, etc.) closer to the customer or their jurisdiction. Azure customers can provision and manage their Azure Extended Zones resources, services, and workloads through the Azure portal and other essential Azure tools.
Key scenarios
The key scenarios Azure Extended Zones enable are:
Latency: users want to run their resources, for example, media editing software, remotely with low latency.
Latency: users want to run their resources, for example, media editing software, remotely with low latency.
Data residency: users want their applications data to stay within a specific geography and might essentially want to host locally for various privacy, regulatory, and compliance reasons.
Data residency: users want their applications data to stay within a specific geography and might essentially want to host locally for various privacy, regulatory, and compliance reasons.
The following diagram shows some of the industries and use cases where Azure Extended Zones can provide benefits.

Service offerings for Azure Extended Zones
Azure Extended Zones enable some key Azure services for customers to deploy. The control plane for these services remains in the region and the data plane is deployed at the Extended Zone site, resulting in a smaller Azure footprint.
The following diagram shows how Azure services are deployed at the Azure Extended Zones location.

The following table lists key services that are available in Azure Extended Zones:
* While these services are GA in Azure Regions, they are currently in Preview in Azure Extended Zones.
Availability and access
Currently, Los Angeles is the only available Extended Zone. SeeRequest access to Azure Extended Zonesto request access to Los Angeles Extended Zone.
Pricing
The pricing and billing process of Los Angeles Azure Extended Zone is consistent with the West US Region. Resources created in the Los Angeles Extended Zone follow the same billing pricing as those created in the West US Region.
Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
To get answers to most frequently asked questions about Azure Extended Zones, seeAzure Extended Zones FAQ.
Related content
Quickstart: Deploy a virtual machine in an Extended Zone
Tutorial: Back up an Azure Extended Zone virtual machine
Azure Extended Zones frequently asked questions (FAQ)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources