Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Dependency analysis
Article
2025-01-03
18 contributors
In this article
This article describes dependency analysis in Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment.
Dependency analysis identifies dependencies between discovered on-premises servers. It provides these advantages:
You can gather servers into groups for assessment, more accurately, with greater confidence.
You can identify servers that must be migrated together. This is especially useful if you're not sure which servers are part of an app deployment that you want to migrate to Azure.
You can identify whether servers are in use, and which servers can be decommissioned instead of migrated.
Analyzing dependencies helps ensure that nothing is left behind, and thus avoids surprise outages after migration.
Reviewcommon questions about dependency analysis.
Analysis types
There are two options for deploying dependency analysis
Agentless analysis
Agentless dependency analysis works by capturing TCP connection data from servers for which it's enabled. No agents are installed on servers. Connections with the same source server and process, and destination server, process, and port are grouped logically into a dependency. You can visualize captured dependency data in a map view, or export it as a CSV. No agents are installed on servers you want to analyze.
Dependency data
After discovery of dependency data begins, polling begins:
The Azure Migrate appliance polls TCP connection data from servers every five minutes to gather data.
The Azure Migrate appliance polls TCP connection data from servers every five minutes to gather data.
Polling gathers this data:Name of processes that have active connections.Name of application that run processes that have active connections.Destination port on the active connections.
Polling gathers this data:
Name of processes that have active connections.
Name of application that run processes that have active connections.
Destination port on the active connections.
The gathered data is processed on the Azure Migrate appliance, to deduce identity information, and is sent to Azure Migrate every six hours.
The gathered data is processed on the Azure Migrate appliance, to deduce identity information, and is sent to Azure Migrate every six hours.
Agent-based analysis
For agent-based analysis, Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment uses theService Mapsolution in Azure Monitor. You install theMicrosoft Monitoring Agent/Log Analytics agentand theDependency agent, on each server you want to analyze.
Dependency data
Agent-based analysis provides this data:
Source server name, process, application name.
Destination server name, process, application name, and port.
Number of connections, latency, and data transfer information are gathered and available for Log Analytics queries.
Compare agentless and agent-based
The differences between agentless visualization and agent-based visualization are summarized in the table.
Next steps
Set upagent-based dependency visualization.
Try outagentless dependency visualization for servers on VMware.
Reviewcommon questionsabout dependency visualization.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources