Identity architecture design
Identity and access management (IAM) architectures provide frameworks for protecting data and resources. Internal networks establish security boundaries in on-premises systems. In cloud environments, perimeter networks and firewalls aren't sufficient for managing access to apps and data. Instead, public cloud systems rely on identity solutions for boundary security.
An identity solution controls access to an organization's apps and data. Users, devices, and applications have identities. IAM components support the authentication and authorization of these and other identities. The process of authentication controls who or what uses an account. Authorization controls what that user can do in applications.
Whether you're just starting to evaluate identity solutions or looking to expand your current implementation, Azure offers many options. One example is Microsoft Entra ID, a cloud service that provides identity management and access control capabilities. To decide on a solution, start by learning about this service and other Azure components, tools, and reference architectures.

Introduction to identity on Azure
If you're new to IAM, the best place to start is Microsoft Learn. This free online platform offers videos, tutorials, and hands-on training for various products and services.
The following resources can help you learn the core concepts of IAM.
Learning paths
Microsoft Security, Compliance, and Identity Fundamentals: Describe the capabilities of Microsoft Identity and access management solutions
Implement Microsoft identity – Associate
SC-300: Implement an identity management solution
MS-500 part 1 - Implement and manage identity and access
Modules
Describe identity concepts
Explore the Microsoft identity platform
Path to production
After you've covered the fundamentals of identity management, the next step is to develop your solution.
Design
To explore options for identity solutions, consult these resources:
For a comparison of three services that provide access to a central identity, seeCompare self-managed Active Directory Domain Services, Microsoft Entra ID, and managed Microsoft Entra Domain Services.
For a comparison of three services that provide access to a central identity, seeCompare self-managed Active Directory Domain Services, Microsoft Entra ID, and managed Microsoft Entra Domain Services.
For information on associating billing offers with a Microsoft Entra tenant, seeAzure billing offers and Active Directory tenants.
For information on associating billing offers with a Microsoft Entra tenant, seeAzure billing offers and Active Directory tenants.
To evaluate options for an identity and access foundation, seeAzure identity and access management design area.
To evaluate options for an identity and access foundation, seeAzure identity and access management design area.
To explore ways to organize resources that you deploy to the cloud, seeResource organization.
To explore ways to organize resources that you deploy to the cloud, seeResource organization.
For a comparison of various authentication options, seeChoose the right authentication method for your Microsoft Entra hybrid identity solution.
For a comparison of various authentication options, seeChoose the right authentication method for your Microsoft Entra hybrid identity solution.
For a comprehensive hybrid identity solution, seeHow Microsoft Entra ID delivers cloud-governed management for on-premises workloads.
For a comprehensive hybrid identity solution, seeHow Microsoft Entra ID delivers cloud-governed management for on-premises workloads.
To learn how Microsoft Entra Connect integrates on-premises directories with Microsoft Entra ID, seeWhat is Microsoft Entra Connect?.
To learn how Microsoft Entra Connect integrates on-premises directories with Microsoft Entra ID, seeWhat is Microsoft Entra Connect?.
Implementation
When you've decided on an approach, implementation comes next. For deployment recommendations, see these resources:
For a series of articles and code samples for a multitenant solution, seeIdentity management in multitenant applications.
For a series of articles and code samples for a multitenant solution, seeIdentity management in multitenant applications.
For information on deploying Microsoft Entra ID, see these resources:Microsoft Entra feature deployment guideMicrosoft Entra deployment plansAzure Active Directory B2C deployment plans
For information on deploying Microsoft Entra ID, see these resources:
Microsoft Entra feature deployment guide
Microsoft Entra deployment plans
Azure Active Directory B2C deployment plans
To learn how to use Microsoft Entra ID to secure a single-page application, see the tutorials atRegister a Single-page application with the Microsoft identity platform.
To learn how to use Microsoft Entra ID to secure a single-page application, see the tutorials atRegister a Single-page application with the Microsoft identity platform.
Best practices
With capabilities like automation, self-service, and single sign-on, Microsoft Entra ID can boost productivity. For general information on benefitting from this service, seeFour steps to a strong identity foundation with Microsoft Entra ID.
With capabilities like automation, self-service, and single sign-on, Microsoft Entra ID can boost productivity. For general information on benefitting from this service, seeFour steps to a strong identity foundation with Microsoft Entra ID.
To check whether your Microsoft Entra implementation aligns with the Azure Security Benchmark version 2.0, seeAzure security baseline for Microsoft Entra ID.
To check whether your Microsoft Entra implementation aligns with the Azure Security Benchmark version 2.0, seeAzure security baseline for Microsoft Entra ID.
Some solutions use private endpoints in tenants to connect to Azure services. To see guidelines for security issues regarding private endpoints, seeLimit cross-tenant private endpoint connections in Azure.
Some solutions use private endpoints in tenants to connect to Azure services. To see guidelines for security issues regarding private endpoints, seeLimit cross-tenant private endpoint connections in Azure.
For recommendations for the following scenarios, seeIntegrate on-premises AD domains with Microsoft Entra ID:Giving your organization's remote users access to your Azure web appsImplementing self-service capabilities for end usersUsing an on-premises network and a virtual network that aren't connected by a virtual private network (VPN) tunnel or ExpressRoute circuit
For recommendations for the following scenarios, seeIntegrate on-premises AD domains with Microsoft Entra ID:
Giving your organization's remote users access to your Azure web apps
Implementing self-service capabilities for end users
Using an on-premises network and a virtual network that aren't connected by a virtual private network (VPN) tunnel or ExpressRoute circuit
For general information and guidelines on migrating applications to Microsoft Entra ID, see these articles:Move application authentication to Microsoft Entra IDMigrate application authentication to Microsoft Entra IDReview the application activity reportResources for migrating applications to Microsoft Entra ID
For general information and guidelines on migrating applications to Microsoft Entra ID, see these articles:
Move application authentication to Microsoft Entra ID
Migrate application authentication to Microsoft Entra ID
Review the application activity report
Resources for migrating applications to Microsoft Entra ID
Suite of baseline implementations
These reference architectures provide baseline implementations for various scenarios:
Create an AD DS resource forest in Azure
Deploy AD DS in an Azure virtual network
Extend on-premises AD FS to Azure
Stay current with identity
Microsoft Entra ID receives improvements on an ongoing basis.
To stay on top of recent developments, seeWhat's new in Microsoft Entra ID?.
For a roadmap showing new key features and services, seeAzure updates.
Additional resources
The following resources provide practical recommendations and information for specific scenarios.

Microsoft Entra ID in educational environments
Introduction to Microsoft Entra tenants
Design a multi-directory architecture for large institutions
Design Tenant Configuration
Design authentication and credential strategies
Design an account strategy
Design identity governance
Updated Guidance for Microsoft 365 EDU Deployment during COVID-19
Information for Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Cloud professionals
Multi-cloud security and identity with Azure and Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Microsoft Entra identity management and access management for AWS
Google Cloud to Azure services comparison—Security and identity