Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor insights for Azure Cache for Redis
Article
2024-03-29
3 contributors
Applies to: ✅ Azure Cache for Redis
In this article
Azure Monitor insights for Azure Cache for Redis provide a unified, interactive view of cache performance, failures, capacity, and operational health. This article shows you how to view Azure Cache for Redis insights across all of your subscriptions, and how to modify and adapt insights to fit the unique needs of your organization.
For more information about Azure Monitor for Azure Cache for Redis, seeMonitor Azure Cache for Redis. For a full list of the metric definitions that form these insights, seeSupported metrics for Microsoft.Cache.
View insights from Azure Monitor
You can access Azure Cache for Redis insights from theInsights Hubof Azure Monitor.
To view the utilization and performance of your Azure Cache for Redis instances across all of your subscriptions, do the following steps:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Search forMonitor, and selectMonitor.
Search forMonitor, and selectMonitor.

SelectAzure Cache for Redis. If this option isn't present, selectMore>Azure Cache for Redis.
SelectAzure Cache for Redis. If this option isn't present, selectMore>Azure Cache for Redis.
Workbooks
Azure Cache for Redis insights are based on theworkbooks feature of Azure Monitorthat provides rich visualizations for metrics and other data. Azure Cache for Redis insights provides two workbooks by default:

Azure Cache For Redis Resource Overviewcombines many of the most commonly used metrics so that the health and performance of the cache instance can be viewed at a glance.
Azure Cache For Redis Resource Overviewcombines many of the most commonly used metrics so that the health and performance of the cache instance can be viewed at a glance.
Geo-Replication Dashboardpulls geo-replication health and status metrics from both the geo-primary and geo-secondary cache instances to give a complete picture of geo-replication health. Using this dashboard is recommended, as some geo-replication metrics are only emitted from either the geo-primary or geo-secondary.
Geo-Replication Dashboardpulls geo-replication health and status metrics from both the geo-primary and geo-secondary cache instances to give a complete picture of geo-replication health. Using this dashboard is recommended, as some geo-replication metrics are only emitted from either the geo-primary or geo-secondary.
Overview
OnOverview, the table displays interactive Azure Cache for Redis metrics. You can filter the results based on the options you select from the following drop-down lists:
Subscriptions: Only subscriptions that have an Azure Cache for Redis resource are listed.
Subscriptions: Only subscriptions that have an Azure Cache for Redis resource are listed.
Azure Cache for Redis: You can select all, a subset, or a single Azure Cache for Redis resource.
Azure Cache for Redis: You can select all, a subset, or a single Azure Cache for Redis resource.
Time Range: By default, the table displays the last four hours of information based on the corresponding selections.
Time Range: By default, the table displays the last four hours of information based on the corresponding selections.
There's a counter tile under the drop-down lists. The tile shows the total number of Azure Cache for Redis resources in the selected subscriptions. Conditional color codes or heat maps for workbook columns report transaction metrics. The deepest color represents the highest value. Lighter colors represent lower values.
Selecting a drop-down list arrow next to one of the Azure Cache for Redis resources reveals a breakdown of the performance metrics at the individual resource level.

When you select the Azure Cache for Redis resource name highlighted in blue, you see the defaultOverviewtable for the associated account. It shows these columns:
Used Memory
Used Memory Percentage
Server Load
Server Load Timeline
CPU
Connected Clients
Cache Misses
Errors (Max)
Operations
When you selectOperationsat the top of the page, theOperationstable of the workbook template opens. It shows these columns:
Total Operations
Total Operations Timeline
Operations Per Second
Gets
Sets

Usage
When you selectUsageat the top of the page, theUsagetable of the workbook template opens. It shows these columns:
Cache Read
Cache Read Timeline
Cache Write
Cache Hits
Cache Misses

Failures
When you selectFailuresat the top of the page, theFailurestable of the workbook template opens. It shows these columns:
Total Errors
Failover/Errors
UnresponsiveClient/Errors
RDB/Errors
AOF/Errors
Export/Errors
Dataloss/Errors
Import/Errors

View insights from an Azure Cache for Redis resource
To access Azure Monitor for Azure Cache for Redis directly from an individual resource:
In the Azure portal, select Azure Cache for Redis.
In the Azure portal, select Azure Cache for Redis.
From the list, choose an individual Azure Cache for Redis resource. In the monitoring section, choose Insights.
From the list, choose an individual Azure Cache for Redis resource. In the monitoring section, choose Insights.

These views are also accessible by selecting the resource name of an Azure Cache for Redis resource from the Azure Monitor level workbook.
Resource-level overview
On theOverviewworkbook for the Azure Redis Cache, it shows several performance metrics that give you access to:
Interactive performance charts showing the most essential details related to Azure Cache for Redis performance.
Interactive performance charts showing the most essential details related to Azure Cache for Redis performance.
Metrics and status tiles highlighting shard performance, total number of connected clients, and overall latency.
Metrics and status tiles highlighting shard performance, total number of connected clients, and overall latency.

Selecting any of the other tabs forPerformanceorOperationsopens that workbooks.
Resource-level performance

Resource-level operations

Pin, export, and expand
To pin any metric section to anAzure dashboard, select the pushpin symbol in the section's upper right.

To export your data into an Excel format, select the down arrow symbol to the left of the pushpin symbol.

To expand or collapse all views in a workbook, select the expand symbol to the left of the export symbol.

Customize Azure Monitor insights for Azure Cache for Redis
Because this experience is built atop Azure Monitor workbook templates, you can selectCustomize>Edit>Saveto save a copy of your modified version into a custom workbook.

Workbooks are saved within a resource group in either theMy Reportssection or theShared Reportssection.My Reportsis available only to you.Shared Reportsis available to everyone with access to the resource group.
After you save a custom workbook, go to the workbook gallery to open it.

Related content
Create interactive reports with Azure Monitor workbooks
Troubleshoot workbook-based insights
Configure metric alerts
Configure service health notifications
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources