Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Release Notes for Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Article
2025-02-04
3 contributors
In this article
This page lists major changes made to AzAcSnap to provide new functionality or resolve defects.
Download the latest release of the binary forLinuxorWindowsand review how toget started.
For specific information on Preview features, refer to theAzAcSnap Previewpage.
Feb-2025
AzAcSnap 11 (Build: 1BA0C3*)
AzAcSnap 11 is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Features moved to GA (generally available):Microsoft SQL Server 2022 on Windows.
Microsoft SQL Server 2022 on Windows.
Dependency updates:Updated to .NET 8List of supported operation systems.NET 8 - Supported OS versions.Azure SDK updated to Track 2 (latest security and performance improvements).
Updated to .NET 8List of supported operation systems.NET 8 - Supported OS versions.
List of supported operation systems.NET 8 - Supported OS versions.
Azure SDK updated to Track 2 (latest security and performance improvements).
Fixes and Improvements:(NEW) Configurable Data Volume Backup Attempts:This feature allows you to set the number of times the system will try to perform a data volume backup. It's useful for databases where locking issues might occur. By default, the system will try 3 times, but you can set it to any number from 1. You can configure this by adding theDATA_BACKUP_ATTEMPTSvariable to the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable.  Currently, this feature is only available for Microsoft SQL Server.  For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.Backup (-c backup) changes:Storage snapshot retention management moved to after database taken out of "backup-mode" to reduce time the database is in a "backup-enabled" state.
(NEW) Configurable Data Volume Backup Attempts:This feature allows you to set the number of times the system will try to perform a data volume backup. It's useful for databases where locking issues might occur. By default, the system will try 3 times, but you can set it to any number from 1. You can configure this by adding theDATA_BACKUP_ATTEMPTSvariable to the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable.  Currently, this feature is only available for Microsoft SQL Server.  For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
This feature allows you to set the number of times the system will try to perform a data volume backup. It's useful for databases where locking issues might occur. By default, the system will try 3 times, but you can set it to any number from 1. You can configure this by adding theDATA_BACKUP_ATTEMPTSvariable to the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable.  Currently, this feature is only available for Microsoft SQL Server.  For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
DATA_BACKUP_ATTEMPTS
.azacsnaprc
Backup (-c backup) changes:Storage snapshot retention management moved to after database taken out of "backup-mode" to reduce time the database is in a "backup-enabled" state.
Storage snapshot retention management moved to after database taken out of "backup-mode" to reduce time the database is in a "backup-enabled" state.
Download the binary ofAzAcSnap 11 for Linux(signature file) orAzAcSnap 11 for Windows.
Oct-2024
AzAcSnap 10a (Build: 1B79BA*)
AzAcSnap 10a is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Fixes and Improvements:Allow configurable wait time-out for Microsoft SQL Server. This option helps you increase time-out for slow responding systems (default and minimum value is 30 seconds).Added a global override variableMSSQL_CMD_TIMEOUT_SECSto be used in either the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable set to the required wait time-out in seconds. For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
Allow configurable wait time-out for Microsoft SQL Server. This option helps you increase time-out for slow responding systems (default and minimum value is 30 seconds).Added a global override variableMSSQL_CMD_TIMEOUT_SECSto be used in either the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable set to the required wait time-out in seconds. For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
Added a global override variableMSSQL_CMD_TIMEOUT_SECSto be used in either the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable set to the required wait time-out in seconds. For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
MSSQL_CMD_TIMEOUT_SECS
.azacsnaprc
Download the binary ofAzAcSnap 10a for Linux(signature file) orAzAcSnap 10a for Windows.
Jul-2024
AzAcSnap 10 (Build: 1B55F1*)
AzAcSnap 10 is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Features added toPreview:Microsoft SQL Serversupport adding options to configure, test, and snapshot backup Microsoft SQL Server in an application consistent manner.
Microsoft SQL Serversupport adding options to configure, test, and snapshot backup Microsoft SQL Server in an application consistent manner.
Features moved to GA (generally available):Windowssupport with AzAcSnap now able to be run on supported Linux distributions and Windows.New configuration file layout.To upgrade pre-AzAcSnap 10 configurations use theazacsnap -c configure --configuration newcommand to create a new configuration file and use the values in your existing configuration file.Azure Large Instance storage management via REST API over HTTPS.This change to the REST API allows the use of Consistency Group snapshots on supported Azure Large Instance storage.
Windowssupport with AzAcSnap now able to be run on supported Linux distributions and Windows.
New configuration file layout.To upgrade pre-AzAcSnap 10 configurations use theazacsnap -c configure --configuration newcommand to create a new configuration file and use the values in your existing configuration file.
To upgrade pre-AzAcSnap 10 configurations use theazacsnap -c configure --configuration newcommand to create a new configuration file and use the values in your existing configuration file.
azacsnap -c configure --configuration new
Azure Large Instance storage management via REST API over HTTPS.This change to the REST API allows the use of Consistency Group snapshots on supported Azure Large Instance storage.
This change to the REST API allows the use of Consistency Group snapshots on supported Azure Large Instance storage.
Fixes and Improvements:New--flushoption which flushes in memory file buffers for local storage, useful for Azure Large Instance and Azure Managed Disk when connected as block storage.Logging improvements.
New--flushoption which flushes in memory file buffers for local storage, useful for Azure Large Instance and Azure Managed Disk when connected as block storage.
--flush
Logging improvements.
Features removed:AzAcSnap installer for Linux.AzAcSnap is now downloadable as a binary for supported versions of Linux and Windows to simplify access to the AzAcSnap program allowing you to get started quickly.Azure Large Instance storage management via CLI over SSH.CLI over SSH replaced with the REST API over HTTPS.
AzAcSnap installer for Linux.AzAcSnap is now downloadable as a binary for supported versions of Linux and Windows to simplify access to the AzAcSnap program allowing you to get started quickly.
AzAcSnap is now downloadable as a binary for supported versions of Linux and Windows to simplify access to the AzAcSnap program allowing you to get started quickly.
Azure Large Instance storage management via CLI over SSH.CLI over SSH replaced with the REST API over HTTPS.
CLI over SSH replaced with the REST API over HTTPS.
Download the binary ofAzAcSnap 10 for LinuxorAzAcSnap 10 for Windows.
Apr-2024
AzAcSnap 9a (Build: 1B3B458)
AzAcSnap 9a is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Fixes and Improvements:Allow AzAcSnap to have Azure Management Endpoints manually configured to allow it to work in Azure Sovereign Clouds.Added a global override variableAZURE_MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINTto be used in either the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable set to the appropriate Azure management endpoint. For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
Allow AzAcSnap to have Azure Management Endpoints manually configured to allow it to work in Azure Sovereign Clouds.Added a global override variableAZURE_MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINTto be used in either the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable set to the appropriate Azure management endpoint. For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
Added a global override variableAZURE_MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINTto be used in either the.azacsnaprcfile or as an environment variable set to the appropriate Azure management endpoint. For details on configuration refer to theglobal override settings to control AzAcSnap behavior.
AZURE_MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINT
.azacsnaprc
Download theAzAcSnap 9ainstaller.
Aug-2023
AzAcSnap 9 (Build: 1AE5640)
AzAcSnap 9 is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Features moved to GA (generally available):IBM Db2 Database support.System Managed Identitysupport for easier setup while improving security posture.
IBM Db2 Database support.
System Managed Identitysupport for easier setup while improving security posture.
Fixes and Improvements:Configure (-c configure) changes:Allows for a blank value forauthFilein the configuration file when using System Managed Identity.
Configure (-c configure) changes:Allows for a blank value forauthFilein the configuration file when using System Managed Identity.
-c configure
Allows for a blank value forauthFilein the configuration file when using System Managed Identity.
authFile
Features added toPreview:None.
None.
Features removed:Azure Key Vault support removed from Preview. It isn't needed now AzAcSnap supports a System Managed Identity directly.
Azure Key Vault support removed from Preview. It isn't needed now AzAcSnap supports a System Managed Identity directly.
Download theAzAcSnap 9installer.
Jun-2023
AzAcSnap 8b (Build: 1AD3679)
AzAcSnap 8b is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Fixes and Improvements:General improvement toazacsnapcommand exit codes.azacsnapshould return an exit code of 0 (zero) when run as expected, otherwise it should return an exit code of non-zero. For example, runningazacsnapreturns non-zero as there's nothing to do and shows usage information whereasazacsnap -hreturns exit-code of zero as it's performing as expected by returning usage information.Any failure in--runbeforeexits before any backup activity and returns the--runbeforeexit code.Any failure in--runafterreturns the--runafterexit code.Backup (-c backup) changes:Change in the Db2 workflow to move the protected-paths query outside the WRITE SUSPEND, Storage Snapshot, WRITE RESUME workflow to improve resilience. (Preview)Fix for missing snapshot name (azSnapshotName) in--runaftercommand environment.
General improvement toazacsnapcommand exit codes.azacsnapshould return an exit code of 0 (zero) when run as expected, otherwise it should return an exit code of non-zero. For example, runningazacsnapreturns non-zero as there's nothing to do and shows usage information whereasazacsnap -hreturns exit-code of zero as it's performing as expected by returning usage information.Any failure in--runbeforeexits before any backup activity and returns the--runbeforeexit code.Any failure in--runafterreturns the--runafterexit code.
azacsnap
azacsnapshould return an exit code of 0 (zero) when run as expected, otherwise it should return an exit code of non-zero. For example, runningazacsnapreturns non-zero as there's nothing to do and shows usage information whereasazacsnap -hreturns exit-code of zero as it's performing as expected by returning usage information.
azacsnap
azacsnap
azacsnap -h
Any failure in--runbeforeexits before any backup activity and returns the--runbeforeexit code.
--runbefore
--runbefore
Any failure in--runafterreturns the--runafterexit code.
--runafter
--runafter
Backup (-c backup) changes:Change in the Db2 workflow to move the protected-paths query outside the WRITE SUSPEND, Storage Snapshot, WRITE RESUME workflow to improve resilience. (Preview)Fix for missing snapshot name (azSnapshotName) in--runaftercommand environment.
-c backup
Change in the Db2 workflow to move the protected-paths query outside the WRITE SUSPEND, Storage Snapshot, WRITE RESUME workflow to improve resilience. (Preview)
Fix for missing snapshot name (azSnapshotName) in--runaftercommand environment.
azSnapshotName
--runafter
Download theAzAcSnap 8binstaller.
May-2023
AzAcSnap 8a (Build: 1AC55A6)
AzAcSnap 8a is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Fixes and Improvements:Configure (-c configure) changes:Fix for-c configurerelated changes in AzAcSnap 8.Improved workflow guidance for better customer experience.
Configure (-c configure) changes:Fix for-c configurerelated changes in AzAcSnap 8.Improved workflow guidance for better customer experience.
-c configure
Fix for-c configurerelated changes in AzAcSnap 8.
-c configure
Improved workflow guidance for better customer experience.
Download theAzAcSnap 8ainstaller.
AzAcSnap 8 (Build: 1AC279E)
AzAcSnap 8 is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Fixes and Improvements:Restore (-c restore) changes:New ability to use-c restoreto--restore revertvolumefor Azure NetApp Files.Backup (-c backup) changes:Fix for incorrect error output when using-c backupand the database has "backint" configured.Remove lower-case conversion for anfBackup rename-only option using-c backupso the snapshot name maintains case of Volume name.Fix for when a snapshot is created even though SAP HANA wasn't put into backup-mode. Now if SAP HANA can't be put into backup-mode, AzAcSnap immediately exits with an error.Details (-c details) changes:Fix for listing snapshot details with-c detailswhen using Azure Large Instance storage.Logging enhancements:Extra logging output to syslog (for example,/var/log/messages) on failure.New "mainlog" (azacsnap.log) to provide a more parse-able high-level log of commands run with success or failure result.New global settings file (.azacsnaprc) to control behavior of azacsnap, including location of "mainlog" file.
Restore (-c restore) changes:New ability to use-c restoreto--restore revertvolumefor Azure NetApp Files.
-c restore
New ability to use-c restoreto--restore revertvolumefor Azure NetApp Files.
-c restore
--restore revertvolume
Backup (-c backup) changes:Fix for incorrect error output when using-c backupand the database has "backint" configured.Remove lower-case conversion for anfBackup rename-only option using-c backupso the snapshot name maintains case of Volume name.Fix for when a snapshot is created even though SAP HANA wasn't put into backup-mode. Now if SAP HANA can't be put into backup-mode, AzAcSnap immediately exits with an error.
-c backup
Fix for incorrect error output when using-c backupand the database has "backint" configured.
-c backup
Remove lower-case conversion for anfBackup rename-only option using-c backupso the snapshot name maintains case of Volume name.
-c backup
Fix for when a snapshot is created even though SAP HANA wasn't put into backup-mode. Now if SAP HANA can't be put into backup-mode, AzAcSnap immediately exits with an error.
Details (-c details) changes:Fix for listing snapshot details with-c detailswhen using Azure Large Instance storage.
-c details
Fix for listing snapshot details with-c detailswhen using Azure Large Instance storage.
-c details
Logging enhancements:Extra logging output to syslog (for example,/var/log/messages) on failure.New "mainlog" (azacsnap.log) to provide a more parse-able high-level log of commands run with success or failure result.
Extra logging output to syslog (for example,/var/log/messages) on failure.
/var/log/messages
New "mainlog" (azacsnap.log) to provide a more parse-able high-level log of commands run with success or failure result.
azacsnap.log
New global settings file (.azacsnaprc) to control behavior of azacsnap, including location of "mainlog" file.
.azacsnaprc
Download theAzAcSnap 8installer.
Feb-2023
AzAcSnap 7a (Build: 1AA8343)
AzAcSnap 7a is being released with the following fixes:
Fixes for-c restorecommands:Enable mounting volumes on HLI (BareMetal) when the volumes are reverted to a prior state when using-c restore --restore revertvolume.Correctly set ThroughputMiBps on volume clones for Azure NetApp Files volumes in an Auto QoS Capacity Pool when using-c restore --restore snaptovol.
-c restore
Enable mounting volumes on HLI (BareMetal) when the volumes are reverted to a prior state when using-c restore --restore revertvolume.
-c restore --restore revertvolume
Correctly set ThroughputMiBps on volume clones for Azure NetApp Files volumes in an Auto QoS Capacity Pool when using-c restore --restore snaptovol.
-c restore --restore snaptovol
Download theAzAcSnap 7ainstaller.
Dec-2022
AzAcSnap 7 (Build: 1A8FDFF)
AzAcSnap 7 is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Fixes and Improvements:Backup (-c backup) changes:Shorten suffix added to the snapshot name. The previous 26 character suffix of "YYYY-MM-DDThhhhss-nnnnnnnZ" was too long. The suffix is now an 11 character hex-decimal based on the ten-thousandths of a second since the Unix epoch to avoid naming collisions, for example, F2D212540D5.Increased validation when creating snapshots to avoid failures on snapshot creation retry.Time out when executing AzAcSnap mechanism to disable/enable backint (autoDisableEnableBackint=true) now aligns with other SAP HANA related operation time-out values.Azure Backup now allows third party snapshot-based backups without impact to streaming backups (also known as "backint"). Therefore, AzAcSnap "backint" detection logic is reordered to allow for future deprecation of this feature. By default this setting is disabled (autoDisableEnableBackint=false). For customers who relied on this feature to take snapshots with AzAcSnap and use Azure Backup, keeping this value as true means AzAcSnap 7 continues to disable/enable backint. As this setting is no longer necessary for Azure Backup, we recommend testing AzAcSnap backups with the value ofautoDisableEnableBackint=false, and then if successful make the same change in your production deployment.Restore (-c restore) changes:Ability to create a custom suffix for Volume clones created when using-c restore --restore snaptovoleither:via the command-line with--clonesuffix <custom suffix>.interactively when running the command without the--forceoption.When doing a--restore snaptovolon ANF, then Volume Clone inherits the new "NetworkFeatures" setting from the Source Volume.Can now do a restore if there are no Data Volumes configured. It only restores the Other Volumes using the Other Volumes latest snapshot (the--snapshotfilteroption only applies to Data Volumes).Extra logging for-c restorecommand to help with user debugging.Test (-c test) changes:Now tests managing snapshots for all otherVolume(s) and all dataVolume(s).
Backup (-c backup) changes:Shorten suffix added to the snapshot name. The previous 26 character suffix of "YYYY-MM-DDThhhhss-nnnnnnnZ" was too long. The suffix is now an 11 character hex-decimal based on the ten-thousandths of a second since the Unix epoch to avoid naming collisions, for example, F2D212540D5.Increased validation when creating snapshots to avoid failures on snapshot creation retry.Time out when executing AzAcSnap mechanism to disable/enable backint (autoDisableEnableBackint=true) now aligns with other SAP HANA related operation time-out values.Azure Backup now allows third party snapshot-based backups without impact to streaming backups (also known as "backint"). Therefore, AzAcSnap "backint" detection logic is reordered to allow for future deprecation of this feature. By default this setting is disabled (autoDisableEnableBackint=false). For customers who relied on this feature to take snapshots with AzAcSnap and use Azure Backup, keeping this value as true means AzAcSnap 7 continues to disable/enable backint. As this setting is no longer necessary for Azure Backup, we recommend testing AzAcSnap backups with the value ofautoDisableEnableBackint=false, and then if successful make the same change in your production deployment.
-c backup
Shorten suffix added to the snapshot name. The previous 26 character suffix of "YYYY-MM-DDThhhhss-nnnnnnnZ" was too long. The suffix is now an 11 character hex-decimal based on the ten-thousandths of a second since the Unix epoch to avoid naming collisions, for example, F2D212540D5.
Increased validation when creating snapshots to avoid failures on snapshot creation retry.
Time out when executing AzAcSnap mechanism to disable/enable backint (autoDisableEnableBackint=true) now aligns with other SAP HANA related operation time-out values.
autoDisableEnableBackint=true
Azure Backup now allows third party snapshot-based backups without impact to streaming backups (also known as "backint"). Therefore, AzAcSnap "backint" detection logic is reordered to allow for future deprecation of this feature. By default this setting is disabled (autoDisableEnableBackint=false). For customers who relied on this feature to take snapshots with AzAcSnap and use Azure Backup, keeping this value as true means AzAcSnap 7 continues to disable/enable backint. As this setting is no longer necessary for Azure Backup, we recommend testing AzAcSnap backups with the value ofautoDisableEnableBackint=false, and then if successful make the same change in your production deployment.
autoDisableEnableBackint=false
autoDisableEnableBackint=false
Restore (-c restore) changes:Ability to create a custom suffix for Volume clones created when using-c restore --restore snaptovoleither:via the command-line with--clonesuffix <custom suffix>.interactively when running the command without the--forceoption.When doing a--restore snaptovolon ANF, then Volume Clone inherits the new "NetworkFeatures" setting from the Source Volume.Can now do a restore if there are no Data Volumes configured. It only restores the Other Volumes using the Other Volumes latest snapshot (the--snapshotfilteroption only applies to Data Volumes).Extra logging for-c restorecommand to help with user debugging.
-c restore
Ability to create a custom suffix for Volume clones created when using-c restore --restore snaptovoleither:via the command-line with--clonesuffix <custom suffix>.interactively when running the command without the--forceoption.
-c restore --restore snaptovol
via the command-line with--clonesuffix <custom suffix>.
--clonesuffix <custom suffix>
interactively when running the command without the--forceoption.
--force
When doing a--restore snaptovolon ANF, then Volume Clone inherits the new "NetworkFeatures" setting from the Source Volume.
--restore snaptovol
Can now do a restore if there are no Data Volumes configured. It only restores the Other Volumes using the Other Volumes latest snapshot (the--snapshotfilteroption only applies to Data Volumes).
--snapshotfilter
Extra logging for-c restorecommand to help with user debugging.
-c restore
Test (-c test) changes:Now tests managing snapshots for all otherVolume(s) and all dataVolume(s).
-c test
Now tests managing snapshots for all otherVolume(s) and all dataVolume(s).
Features moved to GA (generally available):None.
None.
Features added toPreview:Preliminary support for Azure NetApp Files Backup.Db2 database support adding options to configure, test, and snapshot backup IBM Db2 in an application consistent manner.
Preliminary support for Azure NetApp Files Backup.
Db2 database support adding options to configure, test, and snapshot backup IBM Db2 in an application consistent manner.
Download theAzAcSnap 7installer.
Jul-2022
AzAcSnap 6 (Build: 1A5F0B8)
Important
AzAcSnap 6 brings a new release model for AzAcSnap and includes fully supported GA features and Preview features in a single release.
Since AzAcSnap v5.0 was released as GA in April 2021, there has been eight releases of AzAcSnap across two branches. Our goal with the new release model is to align with how Azure components are released. This change allows moving features from Preview to GA (without having to move an entire branch), and introduce new Preview features (without having to create a new branch). From AzAcSnap 6, we have a single branch with fully supported GA features and Preview features (which are subject to Microsoft's Preview Ts&Cs). It’s important to note customers can't accidentally use Preview features, and must enable them with the--previewcommand line option. Therefore the next release will be AzAcSnap 7, which could include; patches (if necessary) for GA features, current Preview features moving to GA, or new Preview features.
--preview
AzAcSnap 6 is being released with the following fixes and improvements:
Features moved to GA (generally available):Oracle Database support.Backint integration to work with Azure Backup.RunBefore/RunAfter command line options to execute custom shell scripts and commands before or after taking storage snapshots.
Oracle Database support.
Backint integration to work with Azure Backup.
RunBefore/RunAfter command line options to execute custom shell scripts and commands before or after taking storage snapshots.
Features in Preview:Azure Key Vault to store Service Principal content.Azure Managed Disk as an alternate storage back-end.
Azure Key Vault to store Service Principal content.
Azure Managed Disk as an alternate storage back-end.
ANF Client API Version updated to 2021-10-01.
Change to workflow for handling Backint to re-enable backint configuration should there be a failure when putting SAP HANA in a consistent state for snapshot.
Download theAzAcSnap 6installer.
May-2022
AzAcSnap v5.0.3 (Build: 20220524.14204) - Patch update to v5.0.2
AzAcSnap v5.0.3 (Build: 20220524.14204) is provided as a patch update to the v5.0 branch with the following fix:
Fix for handling delimited identifiers when querying SAP HANA. This issue only impacted SAP HANA in HSR-HA node when there's a Secondary node configured with "logreplay_readaccss" and is resolved.
Download theAzAcSnap 5.0.3installer.
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220524.15550)
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220524.15550) is an updated build to extend the preview expiry date for 90 days. This update contains the fix for handling delimited identifiers when querying SAP HANA as provided in v5.0.3.
Mar-2022
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220302.81795)
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220302.81795) is released with the following new features:
Azure Key Vault support for securely storing the Service Principal.
A new option for-c backup --volume, which has theallparameter value.
-c backup --volume
all
Feb-2022
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220220.55340)
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220220.55340) is released with the following fixes and improvements:
Resolved failure in matching--dbsidcommand line option withsidentry in the JSON configuration file for Oracle databases when using the-c restorecommand.
--dbsid
sid
-c restore
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220203.77807)
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220203.77807) is released with the following fixes and improvements:
Minor update to resolve STDOUT buffer limitations. Now the list of Oracle table files put into archive-mode is sent to an external file rather than output in the main AzAcSnap log file. The external file is in the same location and basename as the log file, but with a ".protected-tables" extension (output filename detailed in the AzAcSnap log file). It's overwritten each timeazacsnapruns.
azacsnap
Jan-2022
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220125.85030)
AzAcSnap v5.1 Preview (Build: 20220125.85030) is released with the following new features:
Oracle Database support
Backint Co-existence
Azure Managed Disk
RunBefore and RunAfter capability
Aug-2021
AzAcSnap v5.0.2 (Build: 20210827.19086) - Patch update to v5.0.1
AzAcSnap v5.0.2 (Build: 20210827.19086) is provided as a patch update to the v5.0 branch with the following fixes and improvements:
Ignoressh255 exit codes. In some cases thesshcommand, which is used to communicate with storage on Azure Large Instance, would emit an exit code of 255 when there were no errors or execution failures (referman ssh"EXIT STATUS") - then AzAcSnap would trap this exit code as a failure and abort. With this update extra verification is done to validate correct execution, this validation includes parsingsshSTDOUT and STDERR for errors in addition to traditional exit code checks.
ssh
ssh
man ssh
ssh
Fix the installer's check for the location of the hdbuserstore. The installer would search the filesystem for an incorrect source directory for the hdbuserstore location for the user running the install - the installer now searches for~/.hdb. This fix is applicable to systems (for example, Azure Large Instance) where the hdbuserstore was preconfigured for therootuser before installingazacsnap.
~/.hdb
root
azacsnap
Installer now shows the version it will install/extract (if the installer is run without any arguments).
May-2021
AzAcSnap v5.0.1 (Build: 20210524.14837) - Patch update to v5.0
AzAcSnap v5.0.1 (Build: 20210524.14837) is provided as a patch update to the v5.0 branch with the following fixes and improvements:
Improved exit code handling. In some cases AzAcSnap would emit an exit code of 0 (zero), even after an execution failure when the exit code should be non-zero. Exit codes should now only be zero on successfully runningazacsnapto completion and non-zero if there's any failure.
azacsnap
AzAcSnap's internal error handling is extended to capture and emit the exit code of the external commands run by AzAcSnap.
April-2021
AzAcSnap v5.0 (Build: 20210421.6349) - GA Released (21-April-2021)
AzAcSnap v5.0 (Build: 20210421.6349) is now Generally Available and for this build had the following fixes and improvements:
The hdbsql retry time-out (to wait for a response from SAP HANA) is automatically set to half of the "savePointAbortWaitSeconds" to avoid race conditions. The setting for "savePointAbortWaitSeconds" can be modified directly in the JSON configuration file and must be a minimum of 600 seconds.
March-2021
AzAcSnap v5.0 Preview (Build: 20210318.30771)
AzAcSnap v5.0 Preview (Build: 20210318.30771) is released with the following fixes and improvements:
Removed the need to add the AZACSNAP user into the SAP HANA Tenant DBs, see theEnable communication with databasesection.
Fix to allow arestorewith volumes configured with Manual QOS.
Added mutex control to throttle SSH connections for Azure Large Instance.
Fix installer for handling path names with spaces and other related issues.
In preparation for supporting other database servers, changed the optional parameter "--hanasid" to "--dbsid".
Next steps
Get started with Azure Application Consistent Snapshot tool
Download the latest release of the installer
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources