Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Use Cloud Shell in an Azure virtual network
Article
2024-10-23
1 contributor
In this article
By default, Azure Cloud Shell sessions run in a container in a Microsoft network that's separate
from your resources. Commands that run inside the container can't access resources in a private
virtual network. For example, you can't use Secure Shell (SSH) to connect from Cloud Shell to a
virtual machine that has only a private IP address, or usekubectlto connect to a Kubernetes
cluster with locked-down access.
kubectl
To provide access to your private resources, you can deploy Cloud Shell into an Azure virtual
network that you control. This technique is calledvirtual network isolation.
Benefits of virtual network isolation with Cloud Shell
Deploying Cloud Shell in a private virtual network offers these benefits:
The resources that you want to manage don't need to have public IP addresses.
You can use command-line tools, SSH, and PowerShell remoting from the Cloud Shell container to
manage your resources.
The storage account that Cloud Shell uses doesn't have to be publicly accessible.
Things to consider before deploying Azure Cloud Shell in a virtual network
Starting Cloud Shell in a virtual network is typically slower than a standard Cloud Shell session.
Virtual network isolation requires you to useAzure Relay, which is a paid service. In the
Cloud Shell scenario, one hybrid connection is used for each administrator while they're using
Cloud Shell. The connection is automatically closed when the Cloud Shell session ends.
Architecture
The following diagram shows the resource architecture that you must build to enable this scenario.

Customer client network: Client users can be located anywhere on the internet to securely
access and authenticate to the Azure portal and use Cloud Shell to manage resources contained in
the customer's subscription. For stricter security, you can allow users to open Cloud Shell only
from the virtual network contained in your subscription.
Microsoft network: Customers connect to the Azure portal on Microsoft's network to
authenticate and open Cloud Shell.
Customer virtual network: This is the network that contains the subnets to support virtual
network isolation. Resources such as virtual machines and services are directly accessible from
Cloud Shell without the need to assign a public IP address.
Azure Relay:Azure Relayallows two endpoints that aren't directly reachable to
communicate. In this case, it's used to allow the administrator's browser to communicate with the
container in the private network.
File share: Cloud Shell requires a storage account that's accessible from the virtual network.
The storage account provides the file share used by Cloud Shell users.
Pricing
Cloud Shell requires a new or existing Azure Files share to be mounted to persist files across
sessions. Storage incurs regular costs. When you deploy Azure Cloud Shell in a private virtual
network, you pay for network resources. For pricing information, seePricing of Azure Cloud Shell.
Next steps
When you're ready to deploy your own instance of Cloud Shell, seeDeploy Azure Cloud Shell in a virtual network with quickstart templates.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources