Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Container protection in Defender for Cloud
Article
2025-03-10
17 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Defender for Containers is a cloud-native solution to enhance, monitor, and maintain the security of your containerized assets (Kubernetes clusters, nodes, workloads, registries, images, and more) and their applications across multicloud and on-premises environments.
Defender for Containers assists you with four core domains of container security:
Security posture managementruns continuous monitoring of cloud APIs, Kubernetes APIs, and Kubernetes workloads to discover cloud resources, provide comprehensive inventory capabilities, detect misconfigurations with mitigation guidelines, provide contextual risk assessment, and empowers users to perform enhanced risk hunting capabilities through the Defender for Cloud security explorer.
Security posture managementruns continuous monitoring of cloud APIs, Kubernetes APIs, and Kubernetes workloads to discover cloud resources, provide comprehensive inventory capabilities, detect misconfigurations with mitigation guidelines, provide contextual risk assessment, and empowers users to perform enhanced risk hunting capabilities through the Defender for Cloud security explorer.
Vulnerability assessment-  performs agentless vulnerability assessment ofcontainer registry images, running containers, and supported K8s nodeswith remediation guidelines, zero configuration, daily re-scans, coverage for OS and language packages, and exploitability insights. The vulnerability findings artifact is signed with a Microsoft certificate for integrity and authenticity and is associated with the container image in the registry for validation needs.
Vulnerability assessment-  performs agentless vulnerability assessment ofcontainer registry images, running containers, and supported K8s nodeswith remediation guidelines, zero configuration, daily re-scans, coverage for OS and language packages, and exploitability insights. The vulnerability findings artifact is signed with a Microsoft certificate for integrity and authenticity and is associated with the container image in the registry for validation needs.
Run-time threat protection- a rich threat detection suite for Kubernetes clusters, nodes, and workloads, powered by Microsoft leading threat intelligence, provides mapping to MITRE ATT&CK framework for easy understanding of risk and relevant context, and automated response. Security operators can also investigate and respond to threats to Kubernetes services through theMicrosoft Defender XDR portal.
Run-time threat protection- a rich threat detection suite for Kubernetes clusters, nodes, and workloads, powered by Microsoft leading threat intelligence, provides mapping to MITRE ATT&CK framework for easy understanding of risk and relevant context, and automated response. Security operators can also investigate and respond to threats to Kubernetes services through theMicrosoft Defender XDR portal.
Deployment & monitoring- Monitors your Kubernetes clusters for missing sensors and provides frictionless at-scale deployment for sensor-based capabilities, support for standard Kubernetes monitoring tools, and management of unmonitored resources.
Deployment & monitoring- Monitors your Kubernetes clusters for missing sensors and provides frictionless at-scale deployment for sensor-based capabilities, support for standard Kubernetes monitoring tools, and management of unmonitored resources.
You can learn more by watching this video from the Defender for Cloud in the Field video series:Microsoft Defender for Containers.
Microsoft Defender for Containers plan availability
Security posture management
Agentless capabilities
Agentless discovery for Kubernetes- provides zero footprint, API-based discovery of your Kubernetes clusters, configurations, and deployments.
Agentless discovery for Kubernetes- provides zero footprint, API-based discovery of your Kubernetes clusters, configurations, and deployments.
Agentless vulnerability assessment- provides vulnerability assessment forcluster nodesand forall container images, including recommendations for registry and runtime, quick scans of new images, daily refresh of results, exploitability insights, and more. Vulnerability information is added to the security graph for contextual risk assessment and calculation of attack paths, and hunting capabilities.
Agentless vulnerability assessment- provides vulnerability assessment forcluster nodesand forall container images, including recommendations for registry and runtime, quick scans of new images, daily refresh of results, exploitability insights, and more. Vulnerability information is added to the security graph for contextual risk assessment and calculation of attack paths, and hunting capabilities.
Comprehensive inventory capabilities- enables you to explore resources, pods, services, repositories, images, and configurations throughsecurity explorerto easily monitor and manage your assets.
Comprehensive inventory capabilities- enables you to explore resources, pods, services, repositories, images, and configurations throughsecurity explorerto easily monitor and manage your assets.
Enhanced risk-hunting- enables security admins to actively hunt for posture issues in their containerized assets through queries (built-in and custom) andsecurity insightsin thesecurity explorer
Enhanced risk-hunting- enables security admins to actively hunt for posture issues in their containerized assets through queries (built-in and custom) andsecurity insightsin thesecurity explorer
Control plane hardening- continuously assesses the configurations of your clusters and compares them with the initiatives applied to your subscriptions. When it finds misconfigurations, Defender for Cloud generates security recommendations that are available on Defender for Cloud's Recommendations page. The recommendations let you investigate and remediate issues.You can use the resource filter to review the outstanding recommendations for your container-related resources, whether in asset inventory or the recommendations page:For details included with this capability, reviewcontainer recommendations, and look for recommendations with type "Control plane"
Control plane hardening- continuously assesses the configurations of your clusters and compares them with the initiatives applied to your subscriptions. When it finds misconfigurations, Defender for Cloud generates security recommendations that are available on Defender for Cloud's Recommendations page. The recommendations let you investigate and remediate issues.
You can use the resource filter to review the outstanding recommendations for your container-related resources, whether in asset inventory or the recommendations page:
For details included with this capability, reviewcontainer recommendations, and look for recommendations with type "Control plane"
Sensor-based capabilities
Binary drift detection- Defender for Containers provides a sensor-based capability that alerts you about potential security threats by detecting unauthorized external processes within containers. You can define drift policies to specify conditions under which alerts should be generated, helping you distinguish between legitimate activities and potential threats. For more information, seeBinary drift protection (preview).
Kubernetes data plane hardening- To protect the workloads of your Kubernetes containers with best practice recommendations, you can install theAzure Policy for Kubernetes. Learn more aboutmonitoring componentsfor Defender for Cloud.
With the policies defined for your Kubernetes cluster, every request to the Kubernetes API server is monitored against the predefined set of best practices before being persisted to the cluster. You can then configure it to enforce the best practices and mandate them for future workloads.
For example, you can mandate that privileged containers shouldn't be created, and any future requests to do so are blocked.
You can learn more aboutKubernetes data plane hardening.
Vulnerability assessment
Defender for Containers scans the cluster node OS and application software, container images in Azure Container Registry (ACR), Amazon AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR), Google Artifact Registry (GAR), Google Container Registry (GCR), andsupported external image registriesto provide agentless vulnerability assessment.
Now forpublic preview in the AKS environment, Defender for Containers also performs a daily scan of all running containers to provide an updated vulnerability assessment, agnostic to the container's image registry.
Vulnerability information powered by Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management is added to thecloud security graphfor contextual risk, calculation of attack paths, and hunting capabilities.
Learn more aboutvulnerability assessments for Defender for Containers supported environments, includingvulnerability assessment for cluster nodes.
Run-time protection for Kubernetes nodes and clusters
Defender for Containers provides real-time threat protection forsupported containerized environmentsand generates alerts for suspicious activities. You can use this information to quickly remediate security issues and improve the security of your containers.
Threat protection is provided for Kubernetes at the cluster, node, and workload levels. Both sensor-based coverage that requires theDefender sensorand agentless coverage based on analysis of the Kubernetes audit logs are used to detect threats. Security alerts are only triggered for actions and deployments that occur after you enable Defender for Containers on your subscription.
Examples of security events that Microsoft Defenders for Containers monitors include:
Exposed Kubernetes dashboards
Creation of high privileged roles
Creation of sensitive mounts
For more information about alerts detected by Defender for Containers, including an alert simulation tool, seealerts for Kubernetes clusters.
Defender for Containers includes threat detection with over 60 Kubernetes-aware analytics, AI, and anomaly detections based on your runtime workload.
Defender for Cloud monitors the attack surface of multicloud Kubernetes deployments based on theMITRE ATT&CK® matrix for Containers, a framework developed by theCenter for Threat-Informed Defensein close partnership with Microsoft.
Defender for Cloud isintegrated with Microsoft Defender XDR. When Defender for Containers is enabled, security operators can useDefender XDR to investigate and respondto security issues in supported Kubernetes services.
Learn more
Learn more about Defender for Containers in the following blogs:
Introducing Microsoft Defender for Containers
Demonstrating Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Next steps
In this overview, you learned about the core elements of container security in Microsoft Defender for Cloud. To enable the plan, see:
Enable Defender for Containers
Check outcommon questionsabout Defender for Containers.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources