Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Scalability and performance targets for Blob storage
Article
2023-09-12
5 contributors
In this article
This reference details scalability and performance targets for Azure Storage. The scalability and performance targets listed here are high-end targets, but are achievable. In all cases, the request rate and bandwidth achieved by your storage account depends upon the size of objects stored, the access patterns utilized, and the type of workload your application performs.
Make sure to test your service to determine whether its performance meets your requirements. If possible, avoid sudden spikes in the rate of traffic and ensure that traffic is well-distributed across partitions.
When your application reaches the limit of what a partition can handle for your workload, Azure Storage begins to return error code 503 (Server Busy) or error code 500 (Operation Timeout) responses. If 503 errors are occurring, consider modifying your application to use an exponential backoff policy for retries. The exponential backoff allows the load on the partition to decrease, and to ease out spikes in traffic to that partition.
The service-level agreement (SLA) for Azure Storage accounts is available atSLA for Storage Accounts.
Scale targets for Blob storage
1Throughput for a single blob depends on several factors. These factors include but aren't limited to: concurrency, request size, performance tier, speed of source for uploads, and destination for downloads. To take advantage of the performance enhancements ofhigh-throughput block blobs, upload larger blobs or blocks. Specifically, call thePut BloborPut Blockoperation with a blob or block size that is greater than 256 KiB.
2Page blobs aren't yet supported in accounts that have a hierarchical namespace enabled.
The following table describes the maximum block and blob sizes permitted by service version.
See also
Performance and scalability checklist for Blob storage
Scalability targets for standard storage accounts
Scalability targets for premium block blob storage accounts
Scalability targets for the Azure Storage resource provider
Azure subscription limits and quotas
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources