Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Security alerts - a reference guide
Article
2024-08-08
33 contributors
In this article
This article provides links to pages listing the security alerts you may receive from Microsoft Defender for Cloud and any enabled Microsoft Defender plans. The alerts displayed in your environment depend on the resources and services you are protecting and your customized configuration.
Note
Some of the recently added alerts powered by Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence and Microsoft Defender for Endpoint might be undocumented.
This page also includes a table describing the Microsoft Defender for Cloud kill chain aligned with version 9 of theMITRE ATT&CK matrix.
Learn how to respond to these alerts.
Learn how to export alerts.
Note
Alerts from different sources might take different amounts of time to appear. For example, alerts that require analysis of network traffic might take longer to appear than alerts related to suspicious processes running on virtual machines.
Security alert pages by category
Alerts for Windows machines
Alerts for Linux machines
Alerts for DNS
Alerts for Azure VM extensions
Alerts for Azure App Service
Alerts for containers - Kubernetes clusters
Alerts for SQL Database and Azure Synapse Analytics
Alerts for open-source relational databases
Alerts for Resource Manager
Alerts for Azure Storage
Alerts for Azure Cosmos DB
Alerts for Azure network layer
Alerts for Azure Key Vault
Alerts for Azure DDoS Protection
Alerts for Defender for APIs
Alerts for AI workloads
Deprecated security alerts
MITRE ATT&CK tactics
Understanding the intention of an attack can help you investigate and report the event more easily. To help with these efforts, Microsoft Defender for Cloud alerts include the MITRE tactics with many alerts.
The series of steps that describe the progression of a cyberattack from reconnaissance to data exfiltration is often referred to as a "kill chain".
Defender for Cloud's supported kill chain intents are based onversion 9 of the MITRE ATT&CK matrixand described in the table below.
Note
For alerts that are in preview: TheAzure Preview Supplemental Termsinclude additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Next steps
Security alerts in Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Manage and respond to security alerts in Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Continuously export Defender for Cloud data
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources