Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Details of the Canada Federal PBMM Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
Article
2025-04-07
6 contributors
In this article
The following article details how the Azure Policy Regulatory Compliance built-in initiative
definition maps tocompliance domainsandcontrolsin Canada Federal PBMM.
For more information about this compliance standard, seeCanada Federal PBMM. To understandOwnership, review thepolicy typeandShared responsibility in the cloud.
The following mappings are to theCanada Federal PBMMcontrols. Many of the controls
are implemented with anAzure Policyinitiative definition. To review the complete
initiative definition, openPolicyin the Azure portal and select theDefinitionspage.
Then, find and select theCanada Federal PBMMRegulatory Compliance built-in
initiative definition.
Important
Each control below is associated with one or moreAzure Policydefinitions.
These policies may help youassess compliancewith the
control; however, there often is not a one-to-one or complete match between a control and one or
more policies. As such,Compliantin Azure Policy refers only to the policy definitions
themselves; this doesn't ensure you're fully compliant with all requirements of a control. In
addition, the compliance standard includes controls that aren't addressed by any Azure Policy
definitions at this time. Therefore, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your
overall compliance status. The associations between compliance domains, controls, and Azure Policy
definitions for this compliance standard may change over time. To view the change history, see theGitHub Commit History.
Access Control
Account Management
ID: CCCS AC-2
Account Management | Role-Based Schemes
ID: CCCS AC-2(7)
Information Flow Enforcement
ID: CCCS AC-4
Separation of Duties
ID: CCCS AC-5
Least Privilege
ID: CCCS AC-6
Remote Access | Automated Monitoring / Control
ID: CCCS AC-17(1)
Audit and Accountability
Content of Audit Records
ID: CCCS AU-3
Response to Audit Processing Failures
ID: CCCS AU-5
Audit Generation
ID: CCCS AU-12
Contingency Planning
Alternative Processing Site
ID: CCCS CP-7
Identification and Authentication
Authenticator Management
ID: CCCS IA-5
Authenticator Management | Password-Based Authentication
ID: CCCS IA-5(1)
Risk Assessment
Vulnerability Scanning
ID: CCCS RA-5
System and Communications Protection
Denial of Service Protection
ID: CCCS SC-5
Boundary Protection
ID: CCCS SC-7
Boundary Protection | Access Points
ID: CCCS SC-7(3)
Boundary Protection | External Telecommunications Services
ID: CCCS SC-7(4)
Transmission Confidentiality and Integrity | Cryptographic or Alternate Physical Protection
ID: CCCS SC-8(1)
Protection of Information at Rest
ID: CCCS SC-28
System and Information Integrity
Flaw Remediation
ID: CCCS SI-2
Information System Monitoring
ID: CCCS SI-4
Next steps
Additional articles about Azure Policy:
Regulatory Complianceoverview.
See theinitiative definition structure.
Review other examples atAzure Policy samples.
ReviewUnderstanding policy effects.
Learn how toremediate non-compliant resources.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources