Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
UK Police-Assured Secure Facilities (PASF)
Article
2022-09-25
1 contributor
In this article
UK PASF overview
The National Policing Information Risk Management Team (NPIRMT) of the UK Home Office is charged with ensuring that the storage of and access to police information meet its standards. The NPIRMT provides a range ofinformation assurancefunctions to the police community. It sets the central standards and controls for law enforcement agencies across the UK that are assessing the risk of moving police information systems to the cloud. The information assurance policy requires that all national police services in the UK that store and process protectively marked or other sensitive law enforcement information take an extra step in their risk assessment — a physical inspection of the datacenter where their data will be stored. A successful datacenter assessment determines that the facility qualifies for PASF.
Azure and UK PASF
Microsoft Azure can support UK law enforcement IT customers who require Police-Assured Secure Facilities (PASF) to process and store their data in the cloud. The NPIRMT completed a comprehensive security assessment of the physical infrastructure of Microsoft Azure datacenters in the UK, and concluded that they're in compliance with NPIRMT requirements. There were no compliance issues or necessary remedial actions identified as a result of this assessment. Risks identified during PASF audits are managed according tocyber risk assurance of national systemsprovided by NPIRMT.
Local police services can use the NPIRMT assessment to support their own review. Using the NPIRMT policy guidelines, the senior information risk owner for each police service is responsible for assessing the suitability of an individual datacenter in the context of their particular application, which they then submit to the NPIRMT for approval.
Microsoft takes a holistic defense-in-depth approach to security. Our UK datacenters (like all Microsoft datacenters) are certified to comply with themost comprehensive portfolioof internationally recognized standards of any cloud service provider and consistently meet those requirements.
These certifications are backed by the measures that we take to protect thephysical security of our datacenters. We adopt a layered approach that starts with how we design, build, and operate datacenters to strictly control physical access to the areas where customer data is stored. Microsoft datacenters have extensive levels of protection with access approval required at the facility’s perimeter, at the building’s perimeter, inside the building, and on the datacenter floor. This structure reduces the risk of unauthorized users gaining physical access to datacenter resources.
Applicability
Azure UK datacenter physical infrastructure
Audit reports and certificates
The NPIRMT audits one Azure datacenter each year, annually cycling through the four Microsoft datacenters in the UK. The NPIRMT assessment that Microsoft datacenters are PASF is available through the Home Office for law enforcement customers who are conducting their own risk assessment regarding the use of cloud services.
How to implement
Microsoft provides theAzure Policy regulatory compliance built-in initiative for UK OFFICIAL and UK NHS, which maps to UK OFFICIAL and UK NHScompliance domainsandcontrols. Regulatory compliance in Azure Policy provides built-in initiative definitions to view a list of controls and compliance domains based on responsibility - customer, Microsoft, or shared. For Microsoft-responsible controls, we provide extra audit result details based on third-party attestations and our control implementation details to achieve that compliance. Each UK OFFICIAL and UK NHS control is associated with one or more Azure Policy definitions. These policies may help youassess compliancewith the control; however, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your overall compliance status. Azure Policy helps to enforce organizational standards and assess compliance at scale. Through its compliance dashboard, it provides an aggregated view to evaluate the overall state of the environment, with the ability to drill down to more granular status.
Frequently asked questions
Can police departments in the UK use the Azure PASF assessment as part of their own risk assessments?Yes. Law enforcement can use the NPIRMT assessment of Azure to support their own local risk assessment before a move to the cloud.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Physical security of Azure datacenters
College of Policing Authorized Professional Practiceinformation assurance
Additional resources