Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Design area: Management for Azure environments
Article
2025-02-27
15 contributors
In this article
This design area establishes a foundation for operations management across your Azure, hybrid, or multicloud environments. You can enhance your learning later on using the operations guidance outlined inManage methodologyof the Cloud Adoption Framework.
Design area review
Involved roles or functions:This design area is led bycentral ITorcloud operations, specifically thesecurity architects within that team. Thecloud platformandcloud center of excellencewill likely be required to define and implement the technical requirements coming from this exercise. More advanced operations guardrails might also require support fromcloud governance.
Scope:The goal of this exercise is to understand operations management requirements and implement those requirements consistently across all workloads in your cloud platform. The primary scope of this exercise focuses on operations tooling. You'll use operations tooling to manage the collective portfolio of workloads with a set of common tools and processes. This initial set of operations tooling is also referred to as your operations baseline.
Out of scope:You can use the operations baseline defined in this exercise consistently across all workloads. The operations baseline can also be expanded with other tools and processes as outlined in theManage methodologyof the Cloud Adoption Framework. Doing so helps to improve operations for specific technology platforms or individual workloads.
You can also use the operations baseline with the Azure Well-Architected Framework and Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Review to improve the operations and architecture of individual workloads you deploy within your cloud environment. However, any advanced operations, tech platform operations, or workload operations are out of scope for this exercise.
Design area overview
For stable, ongoing operations in the cloud, a management baseline is required to provide visibility, operations compliance, and protect and recover capabilities.
The management design area focuses on the considerations and recommendations for landing zone design decisions. Also, theManage methodologyof the Cloud Adoption Framework provides further in-depth guidance for holistic management processes and tools.
Operations baseline
Use the following operations items to evaluate which operations management tooling you need to include in your operations baseline.
Advanced operations
Use the following advanced operations items as discussion points within your cloud architecture and operations teams. These discussions let you explore and agree on the requirements and features to include in your management design.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources