Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What's new in Defender for Cloud features
Article
2025-03-27
65 contributors
In this article
This article summarizes what's new in Microsoft Defender for Cloud. It includes information about new features in preview or in general availability (GA), feature updates, upcoming feature plans, and deprecated functionality.
This page is updated frequently with the latest updates in Defender for Cloud.
This page is updated frequently with the latest updates in Defender for Cloud.
Find the latest information about security recommendations and alerts inWhat's new in recommendations and alerts.
Find the latest information about security recommendations and alerts inWhat's new in recommendations and alerts.
If you're looking for items older than six months, you can find them in theWhat's new archive.
If you're looking for items older than six months, you can find them in theWhat's new archive.
Tip
Get notified when this page is updated by copying and pasting the following URL into your feed reader:
https://aka.ms/mdc/rss
https://aka.ms/mdc/rss
April 2025
Enhancements for Defender for app service alerts
On April 30, 2025, Defender for App Service alerting capabilities will be enhanced. We will add alerts for suspicious code executions and access to internal or remote endpoints. Additionally, we have improved coverage and reduced noise from relevant alerts by expanding our logic and removing alerts that were causing unnecessary noise. As part of this process, the alert "Suspicious WordPress theme invocation detected" will be deprecated.
March 2025
Enhanced container protection with vulnerability assessment and malware detection for AKS nodes is now GA
March 30, 2025
Defender for Cloud now provides vulnerability assessment and malware detection for the nodes in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) as GA.
Providing security protection for these Kubernetes nodes allow customers to maintain security and compliance across the managed Kubernetes service, as well as understand their part in the shared security responsibility they have with the managed cloud provider.
To receive the new capabilities, you have to enable theAgentless scanning for machines"** as part of Defender CSPM, Defender for Containers, or Defender for Servers P2 plan on your subscription.
A new recommendation is now available in Azure portal:AKS nodes should have vulnerability findings resolved.Using this recommendation, you can now review and remediate vulnerabilities and CVEs found on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) nodes.
New security alerts are triggered when the agentless malware detection capability detects malware in AKS nodes.
Agentless malware detection uses the Microsoft Defender Antivirus anti-malware engine to scan and detect malicious files. When threats are detected, security alerts are directed into Defender for Cloud and Defender XDR, where they can be investigated and remediated.
Note:Malware detection for AKS nodes is available only for Defender for Containers or Defender for Servers P2 enabled environments.
Kubernetes gated deployment (Preview)
March 27, 2025
We're introducing the Kubernetes gated deployment (Preview) feature to the Defender for Containers plan. Kubernetes gated deployment is a mechanism for enhancing Kubernetes security by controlling the deployment of container images that violate organizational security policies.
This capability is based on two new functionalities:
Vulnerability findings artifact: Generation of findings for each container image scanned for vulnerability assessment.
Security rules: Addition of security rules to alert or prevent the deployment of vulnerable container images into Kubernetes clusters.
Customized security rules: Customers can customize security rules for various environments, for Kubernetes clusters within their organization, or for namespaces, to enable security controls tailored to specific needs and compliance requirements.
Configurable actions for a security rule:
Audit: Attempting to deploy a vulnerable container image triggers an "Audit" action, generating a recommendation with violation details on the container image.
Audit: Attempting to deploy a vulnerable container image triggers an "Audit" action, generating a recommendation with violation details on the container image.
Deny: Attempting to deploy a vulnerable container image triggers a "Deny" action to prevent deployment of the container image, ensuring that only secure and compliant images are deployed.
Deny: Attempting to deploy a vulnerable container image triggers a "Deny" action to prevent deployment of the container image, ensuring that only secure and compliant images are deployed.
End-to-End Security: Defining protection from deployment of vulnerable container images as the first security rule, we introduce the end-to-end Kubernetes secure gating mechanism, ensuring that vulnerable containers don't enter the customer's Kubernetes environment.
For more information about this feature, see Gated Deployment solution overview.
Customizable on-upload malware scanning filters in Defender for Storage (Preview)
March 27, 2025
On-upload malware scanning now supports customizable filters. Users can set exclusion rules for on-upload malware scans based on blob path prefixes, suffixes as well as by blob size. By excluding specific blob paths and types, such as logs or temporary files, you can avoid unnecessary scans and reduce costs.
Learn how toconfigure customizable on-upload malware scanning filters.
General Availability for agentless VM scanning support for CMK in Azure
March 26, 2025
Agentless scanning for Azure VMs with CMK encrypted disks is now Generally Available. Both the Defender CSPM plan, and the Defender for Servers P2 provide support for agentless scanning for VMs, now with CMK support across all clouds
Learn how toenable agentless scanning for Azure VMs with CMK encrypted disks.
Upcoming change to the recommendation severity levels
March 11, 2025
We're enhancing the severity levels of recommendations to improve risk assessment and prioritization. As part of this update, we reevaluated all severity classifications and introduced a new level — Critical. Previously, recommendations were categorized into three levels: Low, Medium, and High. With this update, there are now four distinct levels: Low, Medium, High, and Critical, providing a more granular risk evaluation to help customers focus on the most urgent security issues.
As a result, customers might notice changes in the severity of existing recommendations. Additionally, the risk level evaluation, which is available for Defender CSPM customers only, might also be affected as both recommendation severity and asset context are taken into consideration. These adjustments could affect the overall risk level.
The projected change will take place on March 25, 2025.
General Availability of File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) based on Microsoft Defender for Endpoint in Azure Government
March 03, 2025
File Integrity Monitoring based on Microsoft Defender for Endpoint is now GA in Azure Government (GCCH) as part of Defender for Servers Plan 2.
Meet compliance requirements by monitoring critical files and registries in real-time and auditing the changes.
Identify potential security issues by detecting suspicious file content changes.
This improved FIM experience replaces the existing one that set for deprecation with the Log Analytics Agent (MMA) retirement. TheFIM experience over MMAwill remain supported in Azure Government until the end of March 2023.
With this release, an in-product experience will be released to allow you to migrate your FIM configuration over MMA to the new FIM over Defender for Endpoint version.
For information on how to enable FIM over Defender for Endpoint, seeFile Integrity Monitoring using Microsoft Defender for Endpoint. For information on how to disable previous versions and use the migration tool, seeMigrate File Integrity Monitoring from previous versions.
Important
The availability of File Integrity Monitoring in Azure China 21Vianet and in GCCM clouds is not currently planned to be supported.
February 2025
Improved AWS EC2 Resource Name display
February 27, 2025
Estimated date for change:March 2025
We're enhancing how resource names are shown for AWS EC2 instances in our platform. If an EC2 instance has a "name" tag defined, theResource Namefield will now display the value of that tag. If no "name" tag is present, theResource Namefield will continue to show theinstance IDas before. TheResource IDwill still be available in theResource IDfield for reference.
Using the EC2 "name" tag lets you easily identify your resources with custom, meaningful names instead of IDs. This makes it quicker to locate and manage specific instances, reducing the time and effort spent searching or cross-referencing instance details.
On-demand malware scanning in Microsoft Defender for Storage
February 27, 2025
On-demand malware scanning in Microsoft Defender for Storage, now in GA, enables scanning of existing blobs in Azure Storage accounts whenever needed. Scans can be initiated from the Azure portal UI or via the REST API, supporting automation through Logic Apps, Automation playbooks, and PowerShell scripts. This feature uses Microsoft Defender Antivirus with the latest malware definitions for every scan and provides upfront cost estimation in the Azure portal before scanning.
Use cases:
Incident response: Scan specific storage accounts after detecting suspicious activity.
Security baseline: Scan all stored data when first enabling Defender for Storage.
Compliance: Set automation to schedule scans that help meet regulatory and data protection standards.
For more information, seeOn-demand malware scanning.
Defender for Storage malware scanning for blobs up to 50 GB
February 27, 2025
Defender for Storage malware scanning now supports blobs up to 50GB in size (previously limited to 2GB).
Please note that for storage accounts where large blobs are uploaded, the increased blob size limit will result in higher monthly charges.
To avoid unexpected high charges, you may want to set an appropriate cap on the total GB scanned per month. For more information, seeCost control for on-upload malware scanning.
Container registry agnostic agentless vulnerability assessment for AKS runtime containers (Preview)
February 23, 2025
Defender for Containers and Defender for Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) plans, now include container registry agnostic agentless vulnerability assessment for AKS runtime containers. This enhancement extends vulnerability assessment coverage to include running containers with images from any registry (not restricted to supported registries), in addition to scanning Kubernetes add-ons and third party tools running in your AKS clusters. To enable this feature, make sure thatAgentless machine scanningis enabled for your subscription in the Defender for Cloud environment settings.
Data and AI security dashboard (Preview)
February 23, 2025
Defender for Cloud is enhancing the Data security dashboard to include AI Security with the new Data and AI security dashboard in Preview. The dashboard provides a centralized platform to monitor and manage data and AI resources, along with their associated risks and protection status.
Key Benefits of the Data and AI security dashboard include:
Unified view: Gain a comprehensive view of all organizational data and AI resources.
Data insights: Understand where your data is stored and the types of resources holding it.
Protection coverage: Assess the protection coverage of your data and AI resources.
Critical issues: Highlight resources that require immediate attention based on high-severity recommendations, alerts, and attack paths.
Sensitive data discovery: Locate and summarize sensitive data resources in your cloud and AI assets.
AI workloads: Discover AI application footprints, including services, containers, data sets, and models.
Learn more about theData and AI security dashboard.
MDC Cost Calculator (Preview)
February 19, 2025
We're excited to introduce our newMDC Cost Calculatorto help you easily estimate the costs associated with protecting your cloud environments. This tool is tailored to provide you with a clear and accurate understanding of your expenses, ensuring you can plan and budget effectively.
Why Use the Cost Calculator?
Our cost calculator simplifies the process of estimating costs by allowing you to define the scope of your protection needs. You select the environments and plans you want to enable, and the calculator automatically fills in the billable resources for each plan, including any applicable discounts. You're given a comprehensive view of your potential costs without any surprises.
Key Features:
Scope Definition:Select the plans and environments that interest you. The calculator performs a discovery process to automatically populate the number of billable units for each plan per environment.
Automatic and Manual Adjustments:The tool allows for both automatic collection of data and manual adjustments. You can modify the unit quantity and discount levels to see how changes affect the overall cost.
Comprehensive Cost Estimation:The calculator provides an estimate for each plan and a total cost report. You're provided a detailed breakdown of costs, making it easier to understand and manage your expenses.
Multicloud Support:Our solution works for all supported clouds, ensuring that you get accurate cost estimations regardless of your cloud provider.
Export and Share:Once you have your cost estimate, you can easily export and share it for budget planning and approvals.
31 new and enhanced multicloud regulatory standards coverage
February 19, 2025
We are excited to announce the enhanced and expanded support of over 31 security and regulatory frameworks in Defender for Cloud across Azure, AWS & GCP. This enhancement simplifies the path to achieving and maintaining compliance, reduces the risk of data breaches, and helps avoid fines and reputational damage.
The new and enhanced frameworks are:
This joins the recent releases of CIS Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) v1.5, CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) v1.6, and CIS Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) v.15 from few months ago (link).
For more information about Defender for Cloud Regulatory Compliance offering,Learn more>
January 2025
Update to scan criteria for container registries
January 30, 2025
We are updating one of the scan criteria for registry images in the preview recommendation for registry images across all clouds and external registries (Azure,AWS,GCP,Docker,JFrog).
What's Changing?
Currently, we rescan images for 90 days after they have been pushed to a registry. This will now be changed to scan 30 days back.
Note
There are no changes for the related GA recommendations for container vulnerability assessment (VA) on registry images.
Enhancements for the Containers Vulnerabilities Assessment scanning, powered by MDVM
January 29, 2025
We are excited to announce enhancements to our container vulnerability assessment scanning coverage with the following updates:
Additional Programming Languages: Now supporting PHP, Ruby, and Rust.
Additional Programming Languages: Now supporting PHP, Ruby, and Rust.
Extended Java Language Support: Includes scanning for exploded JARs.
Extended Java Language Support: Includes scanning for exploded JARs.
Improved Memory Usage: Optimized performance when reading large container image files.
Improved Memory Usage: Optimized performance when reading large container image files.
Permissions added to GCP connector to support AI platforms
January 27, 2025
TheGCP connector now has additional permissionsto support the GCP AI Platform (Vertex AI):
aiplatform.batchPredictionJobs.list
aiplatform.customJobs.list
aiplatform.datasets.list
aiplatform.datasets.get
aiplatform.endpoints.getIamPolicy
aiplatform.endpoints.list
aiplatform.indexEndpoints.list
aiplatform.indexes.list
aiplatform.models.list
aiplatform.models.get
aiplatform.pipelineJobs.list
aiplatform.schedules.list
aiplatform.tuningJobs.list
discoveryengine.dataStores.list
discoveryengine.documents.list
discoveryengine.engines.list
notebooks.instances.list
Enhancements for the Linux Baselines recommendation powered by GC
January 20, 2025
We are enhancing the Baselines Linux (powered by GC) feature to improve its accuracy and coverage. During February, you may notice changes such as updated rule names and additional rules. These improvements are designed to make the baselines assessment more accurate and up-to-date. For more information about the changes, please refer to the relevantblog
Some of the changes may include additional "public preview" changes. This update is beneficial for you, and we want to keep you informed. If you prefer, you can opt out of this recommendation by exempting it from your resource or removing the GC extension.
December 2024
Changes to the scan interval of existing cloud connectors
December 31, 2024
Earlier this month, anupdate was publishedregarding the revised Defender for Cloud interval options for scanning a cloud environment. The scan interval setting determines how often Defender for Cloud's discovery services scan your cloud resources. This change ensures a more balanced scanning process, optimizing performance, and minimizing the risk of reaching API limits.
Scan interval settings for existing AWS and GCP cloud connectors will be updated to ensure Defender for Cloud's ability to scan your cloud environments.
The following adjustments will be made:
Intervals currently set between 1–3 hours will be updated to 4 hours.
Intervals set to 5 hours will be updated to 6 hours.
Intervals set between 7–11 hours will be updated to 12 hours.
Intervals of 13 hours or more will be updated to 24 hours.
If you prefer a different scan interval, you can adjust cloud connectors using the environment settings page. These changes will be applied automatically to all customers in early February 2025, and no further action is required.
Sensitivity scanning capabilities now include Azure file shares
December 17, 2024
Defender for Cloud's Security Posture Management (CSPM) sensitivity scanning capabilities now include Azure file shares in GA in addition to blob containers.
Before this update, enabling the Defender CSPM plan on a subscription would automatically scan blob containers within storage accounts for sensitive data. With this update, Defender for CSPM's sensitivity scanning feature now includes file shares within those storage accounts. This enhancement improves the risk assessment and protection of sensitive storage accounts, providing a more comprehensive analysis of potential risks.
Learn more aboutsensitivity scanning.
Integrate Defender for Cloud CLI with Popular CI/CD Tools
Defender for Cloud CLI scanning integration with popular CI/CD tools in Microsoft Defender for Cloud is now available for public preview. The CLI can now be incorporated into CI/CD pipelines to scan and identify security vulnerabilities in containerized source code. This feature assists development teams in detecting and addressing code vulnerabilities during pipeline execution. It requires authentication to Microsoft Defender for Cloud and modifications to the pipeline script. Scan results will be uploaded to Microsoft Defender for Cloud, allowing security teams to view and correlate them with containers in the container registry. This solution delivers continuous and automated insights to expedite risk detection and response, ensuring security without disrupting workflows.
Use cases:
Pipeline scanning within CI/CD tools: Securely monitor all pipelines that invoke the CLI.
Early vulnerability detection: Results are published in the pipeline and sent to Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
Continuous security insights: Maintain visibility and respond swiftly across development cycles without hindering productivity.
For more information, seeIntegrate Defender for Cloud CLI with Popular CI/CD Tools.
Defender for Cloud Setup experience
December 10, 2024
The Setup experience allows you to start your initial steps with Microsoft Defender for Cloud by connecting cloud environments such as cloud infrastructure, code repositories, and external container registries.
You're guided through the setup of your cloud environment, to protect your assets with advanced security plans, effortlessly perform quick actions to increase security coverage at scale, be aware of connectivity issues, and be notified of new security capabilities. You can navigate to the new experience from theDefender for Cloud menu by selectingSetup.
Revised interval options for Defender for Cloud scan of a cloud environment
December 10, 2024
The scan interval options for cloud connectors associated with AWS, GCP, Jfrog, and DockerHub have been revised. The scan interval feature allows you to control the frequency at which the Defender for Cloud initiates a scan of the cloud environment. You can set the scan interval to 4, 6, 12, or 24 hours, when adding or editing a cloud connector. The default scan interval for new connectors continues to be 12 hours.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint client version update is required to receive File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) experience
June, 2025
Starting June 2025, File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) requires a minimum Defender for Endpoint (MDE) client version. Please ensure that you are at the minimum following client versions to continue benefiting from the FIM experience in Microsoft Defender for Cloud: for Windows: 10.8760, for Linux: 30.124082.Learn more
November 2024
Sensitivity scanning capabilities now include Azure file shares (Preview)
November 28, 2024
Defender for Cloud's Security Posture Management (CSPM) sensitivity scanning capabilities now include Azure file shares (in preview) in addition to blob containers.
Before this update, enabling the Defender CSPM plan on a subscription would automatically scan blob containers within storage accounts for sensitive data. With this update, Defender for CSPM's sensitivity scanning feature now includes file shares within those storage accounts. This enhancement improves the risk assessment and protection of sensitive storage accounts, providing a more comprehensive analysis of potential risks.
Learn more aboutsensitivity scanning.
Sensitivity label consent changes
November 26, 2024
You no longer need to select the dedicated consent button under the "Information Protection" section within the "Labels" page, to benefit from custom information types and sensitivity labels configured in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal or Microsoft Purview compliance portal.
With this change, all custom information types and sensitivity labels are automatically imported into the Microsoft Defender for Cloud portal.
Learn more aboutdata sensitivity settings.
Sensitivity label changes
November 26, 2024
Until recently, Defender for Cloud imported all sensitivity labels from the Microsoft 365 Defender portal that met the following two conditions:
Sensitivity labels that have their scope set to "Items -> Files", or "Items -> Emails", under the "Define the scope of your label" section in the Information Protection section.
The sensitivity label has an automatic labeling rule configured.
As of November 26, 2024 the names of the sensitivity label scopes in the user interface (UI) have been updated in both the Microsoft 365 Defender portal and the Microsoft Purview compliance portal. Defender for Cloud now will only import sensitivity labels with the "Files and other data assets" scope applied to them. Defender for Cloud no longer imports labels with the "Emails" scope applied to them.
Note
Labels that were configured with "Items -> Files" before this change took place are automatically migrated to the new "Files and other data assets" scope.
Learn more abouthow to configure sensitivity labels.
Defender for Storage malware scanning for blobs up to 50 GB (Preview)
November 25, 2024
Estimated date for change:December 1, 2024
Starting on December 1, 2024, Defender for Storage malware scanning willsupport blobs up to 50GB in size(previously limited to 2GB).
Please note that for storage accounts where large blobs are uploaded, the increased blob size limit will result in higher monthly charges.
To avoid unexpected high charges, you may want to set an appropriate cap on total GB scanned per month. For more information, seeCost control for on-upload malware scanning.
Updated versions of CIS standards for managed Kubernetes environments and new recommendations
November 19, 2024
Defender for Cloud's regulatory compliance dashboard now offers updated versions of the Center for Internet Security (CIS) standards for assessing the security posture of managed Kubernetes environments.
From the dashboard, you can assign the following standards to your AWS/EKS/GKE Kubernetes resources:
CIS Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) v1.5.0
CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) v1.6.0
CIS Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) v1.5.0
To ensure the best possible depth of coverage for these standards, we've enriched our coverage by also releasing 79 new Kubernetes-centric recommendations.
To use these new recommendations, either assign the standards listed above or create a custom standard and include one or more of the new assessments in it.
Public preview of Kubernetes cloud process events in advanced hunting
We're announcing the preview release of Kubernetes cloud process events in advanced hunting. This powerful integration provides detailed information about Kubernetes process events occurring across your multicloud environments. You can use it to discover threats that can be observed through process details, such as malicious processes invoked in your cloud infrastructure. For more information, seeCloudProcessEvents.
Deprecation of Bring your own License (BYOL) feature in vulnerability management
November 19, 2024
Estimated date for change:
February 3 2025: The feature will no longer be available for onboarding new machines and subscriptions.
February 3 2025: The feature will no longer be available for onboarding new machines and subscriptions.
May 1 2025: The feature will be fully deprecated and no longer available.
May 1 2025: The feature will be fully deprecated and no longer available.
As part of our efforts to improve the Defender for Cloud security experience, we're streamlining our vulnerability assessment solutions. We're removing the "Bring Your Own License" feature in Defender for Cloud. You'll now use Microsoft Security Exposure Management connectors for a more seamless, integrated, and complete solution.
We recommend that you transition to the new connector solution within Microsoft Security Exposure Management. Our team is here to support you through this transition.
For more information on using the connectors, seeOverview of connecting data sources in Microsoft Security Exposure Management - Microsoft Security Exposure Management.
Agentless code scanning in Microsoft Defender for Cloud (preview)
November 19, 2024
Agentless code scanning in Microsoft Defender for Cloud is now available for public preview. It offers fast and scalable security for all repositories in Azure DevOps organizations with one connector. This solution helps security teams find and fix vulnerabilities in code and infrastructure as code (IaC) configurations across Azure DevOps environments. It doesn't require agents, changes to pipelines, or interruptions to developer workflows, making setup and maintenance simple. It works independently from continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines. The solution provides continuous and automated insights to speed up risk detection and response, ensuring security without interrupting workflows.
Use cases:
Organization-wide scanning:You can securely monitor all repositories in Azure DevOps organizations with one connector.
Early vulnerability detection:Quickly find code and IaC risks for proactive risk management.
Continuous security insights:Keep visibility and respond quickly across development cycles without affecting productivity.
For more information, seeAgentless code scanning in Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
On-demand malware scanning in Microsoft Defender for Storage (Preview)
November 19, 2024
On-demand malware scanning in Microsoft Defender for Storage, now in public preview, enables scanning of existing blobs in Azure Storage accounts whenever needed. Scans can be initiated from the Azure portal UI or via the REST API, supporting automation through Logic Apps, Automation playbooks, and PowerShell scripts. This feature uses Microsoft Defender Antivirus with the latest malware definitions for every scan and provides upfront cost estimation in the Azure portal before scanning.
Use cases:
Incident response: Scan specific storage accounts after detecting suspicious activity.
Security baseline: Scan all stored data when first enabling Defender for Storage.
Compliance: Set automation to schedule scans that help meet regulatory and data protection standards.
For more information, seeOn-demand malware scanning.
JFrog Artifactory container registry support by Defender for Containers (Preview)
November 18, 2024
This feature extends Microsoft Defender for Containers coverage of external registries to include JFrog Artifactory. Your JFrog Artifactory container images are scanned using Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management to identify security threats and mitigate potential security risks.
AI security posture management is now generally available (GA)
November 18, 2024
Defender for Cloud's AI security posture management features are now generally available (GA).
Defender for Cloud reduces risk to cross cloud AI workloads by:
Discovering generative AI Bill of Materials (AI BOM), which includes application components, data, and AI artifacts from code to cloud.
Discovering generative AI Bill of Materials (AI BOM), which includes application components, data, and AI artifacts from code to cloud.
Strengthening generative AI application security posture with built-in recommendations and by exploring and remediating security risks.
Strengthening generative AI application security posture with built-in recommendations and by exploring and remediating security risks.
Using the attack path analysis to identify and remediate risks.
Using the attack path analysis to identify and remediate risks.
Learn more aboutAI security posture management.
Critical assets protection in Microsoft Defender for Cloud
November 18, 2024
Today, we're excited to announce the General Availability of Critical Assets Protection in Microsoft Defender for Cloud. This feature enables security administrators to tag the "crown jewel" resources that are most critical to their organizations, allowing Defender for Cloud to provide them with the highest level of protection and prioritize security issues on these assets above all others.Learn more about critical assets protection.
Alongside the General Availability release, we're also expending support for tagging Kubernetes and nonhuman identity resources.
Enhanced critical asset protection for containers
November 18, 2024
Critical asset protectionis extended to support additional use cases for containers.
Users can now create custom rules that mark assets managed by Kubernetes (workloads, containers, etc.) as critical based on the asset Kubernetes namespace and/or the asset Kubernetes label.
As with other critical asset protection use cases, Defender for Cloud takes into account asset criticality for risk prioritization, attack path analysis, and security explorer.
Enhancements to detect & respond to container threats
November 18, 2024
Defender for Cloud provides a suite of new features to empower SOC teams totackle container threatsin cloud-native environments with greater speed and precision. These enhancements include Threat Analytics, GoHunt capabilities, Microsoft Security Copilot guided response, and cloud-native response actions for Kubernetes pods.
Defender for Cloud now offers multicloud response actions for Kubernetes pods, accessible exclusively from the Defender XDR portal. These capabilities enhance incident response for AKS, EKS, and GKE clusters.
The following are new response actions:
Network Isolation- Instantly block all traffic to a pod, preventing lateral movement and data exfiltration. Requires network policy configuration on your kubernetes cluster.
Pod Termination- Quickly terminate suspicious pods, stopping malicious activity without disrupting the broader application.
These actions empower SOC teams to contain threats effectively across cloud environments.
We're introducing a dedicated Threat Analytics report, designed to provide comprehensive visibility into threats targeting containerized environments. This report equips SOC teams with insights to detect and respond to the latest attack patterns on AKS, EKS, and GKE clusters.
Key Highlights:
Detailed analysis of top threats and associated attack techniques within Kubernetes environments.
Actionable recommendations to strengthen your cloud-native security posture and mitigate emerging risks.
GoHunt now extends its hunting capabilities to include Kubernetes pods and Azure resources, within the Defender XDR portal. This feature enhances proactive threat hunting, enabling SOC analysts to conduct in-depth investigations across cloud-native workloads.
Key Features:
Advanced query capabilities to detect anomalies in Kubernetes pods and Azure resources, offering richer context for threat analysis.
Seamless integration with Kubernetes entities for efficient threat hunting and investigation.
Introducing Guided Response for Kubernetes pods, a feature powered by Security Copilot. This new capability provides real-time, step-by-step guidance, helping SOC teams respond to container threats swiftly and effectively.
Key Benefits:
Contextual response playbooks tailored to common Kubernetes attack scenarios.
Expert, real-time support from Security Copilot, bridging the knowledge gap and enabling faster resolution.
API Security Posture Management Native Integration within Defender CSPM plan now in public preview
November 15, 2024
API security posture management (Preview) capabilities are now included in the Defender CSPM plan and can be enabled through extensions within the plan under environment settings page. For more information, seeImprove your API security posture (Preview).
Enhanced container protection with vulnerability assessment and malware detection for AKS nodes (Preview)
November 13, 2024
Defender for Cloud now provides vulnerability assessment and malware detection for the nodes in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), and provides clarity to customers on their part in the shared security responsibility they have with the managed cloud provider.
Providing security protection for these Kubernetes nodes allow customers to maintain security and compliance across the managed Kubernetes service.
To receive the new capabilities, you have to enable theagentless scanning for machinesoption in the Defender CSPM, Defender for Containers, or Defender for Servers P2 plan in your subscription.
A new recommendation is now available in Azure portal:AKS nodes should have vulnerability findings resolved. Through this recommendation, you can now review and remediate vulnerabilities and CVEs found on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) nodes.
AKS nodes should have vulnerability findings resolved
New security alerts are triggered when the agentless malware detection capability detects malware in AKS nodes.
Agentless malware detection uses the Microsoft Defender Antivirus anti-malware engine to scan and detect malicious files. When threats are detected, security alerts are directed into Defender for Cloud and Defender XDR, where they can be investigated and remediated.
Important
Malware detection for AKS nodes is available only for Defender for Containers or Defender for Servers P2 enabled environments.
Enhanced Kubernetes (K8s) Alert Documentation and Simulation Tool
November 7, 2024
Scenario-based alert documentation: K8s alerts are now documented based on real-world scenarios, providing clearer guidance on potential threats and recommended actions.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint (MDE) integration: Alerts are enriched with additional context and threat intelligence from MDE, improving you the ability to respond effectively.
New Simulation Tool: A powerful simulation tool is available to test your security posture by simulating various attack scenarios and generating corresponding alerts.
Improved alert understanding: Scenario-based documentation provides a more intuitive understanding of K8s alerts.
Enhanced threat response: Alerts are enriched with valuable context, enabling faster and more accurate responses.
Proactive security testing: The new simulation tool allows you to test your security defenses and identify potential vulnerabilities before they're exploited.
Enhanced support for API sensitive data classification
November 6, 2024
Microsoft Defender for Cloud extends API Security sensitive data classification capabilities to API URL path and query parameters along with API request and responses, including the source of sensitive information found in the API properties. This information will be available in the Attack Path Analysis experience, the Cloud Security Explorer'sAdditional Detailspage when API Management operations with sensitive data are selected, and on the API Security Dashboard under the Workload Protections within API collection details page, with a new side context menu that provides detailed insights into sensitive data found, enabling security teams efficiently locate and mitigate data exposure risks.
Note
This change will include a one-time rollout to existing Defender for APIs and Defender CSPM customers.
New support for mapping Azure API Management API endpoints to backend compute
November 6, 2024
Defender for Cloud's API security posture now supports mapping API endpoints published through Azure API Management Gateway to backend compute resources, such as virtual machines, in the Defender Cloud Security Posture Management (Defender CSPM) Cloud Security Explorer. This visibility helps identify API traffic routing to backend cloud compute destinations, enabling you to detect and address exposure risks associated with API endpoints and their connected backend resources.
Enhanced API security support for multi-regional Azure API Management deployments and managing API revisions
November 6, 2024
API security coverage within Defender for Cloud will now have full support for Azure API Management multi-region deployments, including full security posture and threat detection support to both primary and secondary regions
Onboarding and offboarding APIs to Defender for APIs will now be managed at the Azure API Management API level. All associatedAzure API Management revisionswill automatically be included in the process, eliminating the need to manage onboarding and offboarding for each API revision individually.
This change includes a one-time rollout to existing Defender for APIs customers.
Rollout Details:
The rollout will occur during the week of November 6 for existing Defender for APIs customers.
If the 'current' revision for an Azure API Management API is already onboarded to Defender for APIs, all associated revisions for that API will also be automatically onboarded to Defender for APIs.
If the 'current' revision for an Azure API Management API isn't onboarded to Defender for APIs, any associated API revisions that were onboarded to Defender for APIs will be offboarded.
October 2024
MMA migration experience is now available
October 28, 2024
You can now ensure that all of your environments are fully prepared for the post Log Analytics agent (MMA) deprecation expected at the end of November 2024.
Defender for Cloud added a new experience that allows you to take action at scale for all of your affected environments:
That's missing prerequisites necessary to gain the full security coverage offered by Defender for Servers Plan 2.
That'sconnected to Defender for Servers Plan 2 using the legacy onboarding approach via Log Analytics workspace.
That uses the old File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) version with the Log Analytics agent (MMA) need to migrate to the new,improved FIM version with Defender for Endpoint (MDE).
Learn how touse the new MMA migration experience.
Security findings for GitHub repositories without GitHub Advanced Security is now GA
October 21, 2024
The ability to receive security findings for infrastructure-as-code (IaC) misconfigurations, container vulnerabilities, and code weaknesses for GitHub repositories without GitHub Advanced Security is now generally available.
Note that secret scanning, code scanning usingGitHub CodeQL, and dependency scanning still require GitHub Advanced Scanning.
To learn more about required licenses, see theDevOps support page. To learn how to onboard your GitHub environment to Defender for Cloud, follow theGitHub onboarding guide. To learn how to configure the Microsoft Security DevOps GitHub Action, see ourGitHub Action documentation.
Deprecation of three compliance standards
October 14, 2024
Estimated date for change:November 17, 2024
Three compliance standards are being removed from the product:
SWIFT CSP-CSCF v2020 (for Azure)- This was superseded by the v2022 version
CIS Microsoft Azure Foundations Benchmark v1.1.0andv1.3.0- We have two newer versions available (v1.4.0 and v2.0.0)
Learn more about the compliance standards available in Defender for Cloud inAvailable compliance standards.
Deprecation of three Defender for Cloud standards
October 8, 2024
Estimated date for change:November 17, 2024
To simplify the management of Defender for Cloud with AWS accounts and GCP projects, we're removing the following three Defender for Cloud standards:
For AWS -AWS CSPM
For GCP -GCP CSPMandGCP Default
The default standard,Microsoft Cloud Security Benchmark (MCSB), now contains all the assessments which were unique to these standards.
Binary drift detection released as GA
October 9, 2024
Binary drift detection is now released as GA in the Defender for Container plan. Note that binary drift detection now works on all AKS versions.
Updated containers runtime recommendations (preview)
October 6, 2024
The preview recommendations for "Containers running in AWS/Azure/GCP should have vulnerabilities findings resolved" are updated to group all containers that are part of the same workload into a single recommendation, reducing duplications and avoid fluctuations due to new and terminated containers.
As of October 6, 2024 the following assessment IDs are replaced for these recommendations:
If you're currently retrieving vulnerability reports from these recommendations via API, ensure you update the API call with the new assessment ID.
Kubernetes Identity and Access information in the security graph (preview)
October 6, 2024
Kubernetes Identity and Access information is added to the security graph, including nodes that represent all Kubernetes Role Based Access Control (RBAC) related entities (service accounts, roles, role bindings, etc.), and edges that represent the permissions between Kubernetes objects. Customers can now query the security graph for their Kubernetes RBAC, and related relationships between Kubernetes entities (Can Authenticate As, Can Impersonate As, Grants Role, Access Defined By, Grants Access To, Has Permission To, etc.)
Kubernetes Identity and Access information-based attack paths (preview)
October 6, 2024
Using the Kubernetes RBAC data in the security graph, Defender for Cloud now detects Kubernetes, Kubernetes to Cloud, and inner Kubernetes lateral movement and reports on other attack paths where attackers can abuse Kubernetes and Cloud authorization for lateral movement to, from, and within Kubernetes clusters.
Improved attack path analysis for containers
October 6, 2024
The new attack path analysis enginereleased last November now supports container use cases as well, dynamically detecting new types of attack paths in cloud environments based on the data added to the graph. We can now find more attack paths for containers and detect more complex and sophisticated attack patterns used by attackers to infiltrate cloud and Kubernetes environments.
Full discovery of container images in supported registries
October 6, 2024
Defender for Cloud now collects inventory data for all container images in supported registries, providing full visibility within the security graph to all images in your cloud environments, including images that currently don't have any posture recommendations.
Querying capabilities through the Cloud Security Explorer are improved so users can now search for container images based on their metadata (digest, repository, OS, tag, and etc.)
Containers software inventory with Cloud Security Explorer
October 6, 2024
Customers are now able to get alist of software installed in their containers and container images through the Cloud Security Explorer. This list can also be used to quickly gain other insights into the customer environment, such as finding all containers and container images with software impacted by a zero-day vulnerability, even before a CVE is published.
September 2024
Cloud security explorer experience improvements
September 22, 2024
Estimated date for change:October 2024
The Cloud Security Explorer is set to improve performance and grid functionality, provide more data enrichment on each cloud asset, improve search categories, and improve CSV export report with more insights on the exported cloud assets.
General Availability of File Integrity Monitoring based on Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
September 18, 2024
The new version of File Integrity Monitoring based on Microsoft Defender for Endpoint is now GA as part of Defender for Servers Plan 2. FIM enables you to:
Meet compliance requirements by monitoring critical files and registries in real-time and auditing the changes.
Identify potential security issues by detecting suspicious file content changes.
This improved FIM experience replaces the existing one that set for deprecation with the Log Analytics Agent (MMA) retirement. TheFIM experience over MMAwill remain supported until the end of November 2024.
With this release, an in-product experience is released to allow you to migrate your FIM configuration over MMA to the new FIM over Defender for Endpoint version.
For information on how to enable FIM over Defender for Endpoint, seeFile Integrity Monitoring using Microsoft Defender for Endpoint. For information on how to disable previous versions, seeMigrate File Integrity Monitoring from previous versions.
FIM migration experience is available in Defender for Cloud
September 18, 2024
An in-product experience is released to allow you to migrate your FIM configuration over MMA to the new FIM over Defender for Endpoint version.
With this experience you can:
Review affected environment with previous FIM version over MMA enabled and required migration.
Export your current FIM rules from MMA- based experience and reside on workspaces
Migrate to P2 enabled subscriptions with new FIM over MDE.
To use the migration experience, navigate to theEnvironment settingspane and select theMMA migrationbutton in the upper row.
Deprecation of MMA auto-provisioning capability
September 18, 2024
As part of the MMA agent retirement, the auto provisioning capability that provides the installation and configuration of the agent for MDC customers, will be deprecated as well in two stages:
By the end of September 2024- auto provisioning of MMA will be disabled for customers that are no longer using the capability, as well as for newly created subscriptions. After end of September, the capability will no longer be able to be re-enabled on those subscriptions.
By the end of September 2024- auto provisioning of MMA will be disabled for customers that are no longer using the capability, as well as for newly created subscriptions. After end of September, the capability will no longer be able to be re-enabled on those subscriptions.
End of November 2024-auto provisioning of MMA will be disabled on subscriptions that haven't yet switched it off. From that point forward, it can no longer be possible to enable the capability on existing subscriptions.
End of November 2024-auto provisioning of MMA will be disabled on subscriptions that haven't yet switched it off. From that point forward, it can no longer be possible to enable the capability on existing subscriptions.
Integration with Power BI
September 15, 2024
Defender for Cloud can now integrate with Power BI. This integration allows you to create custom reports and dashboards using the data from Defender for Cloud. You can use Power BI to visualize and analyze your security posture, compliance, and security recommendations.
Learn more about the newintegration with Power BI.
Update to CSPM multicloud network requirements
September 11, 2024
Estimated date for change:October 2024
Beginning October 2024, we're adding more IP addresses to our multicloud discovery services to accommodate improvements and ensure a more efficient experience for all users.
To ensure uninterrupted access from our services, you should update your IP allowlist with the new rangesprovided here. You should make the necessary adjustments in your firewall settings, security groups, or any other configurations that might be applicable to your environment. The list is sufficient for full capability of the CSPM foundational (free) offering.
Defender for Servers feature deprecation
September 9, 2024
Both Adaptive application controls, and Adaptive network hardening are now deprecated.
Spanish National Security Framework (Esquema Nacional de Seguridad (ENS)) added to regulatory compliance dashboard for Azure
September 9, 2024
Organizations that wish to check their Azure environments for compliance with the ENS standard can now do so using Defender for Cloud.
The ENS standard applies to the entire public sector in Spain, as well as to suppliers collaborating with the Administration. It establishes basic principles, requirements, and security measures to protect information and services processed electronically. The goal is to ensure access, confidentiality, integrity, traceability, authenticity, availability, and data preservation.
Check out thefull list of supported compliance standards.
Remediate system updates and patches recommendations on your machines
September 8, 2024
You can now remediate system updates and patches recommendations on your Azure Arc-enabled machines and Azure VMs. System updates and patches are crucial for keeping the security and health of your machines. Updates often contain security patches for vulnerabilities that, if left unfixed, are exploitable by attackers.
Information about missing machine updates is now gathered using Azure Update Manager.
In order to maintain the security of your machines for system updates and patches, you'll need to enable the periodic assessment updates settings on your machines.
Learn how toRemediate system updates and patches recommendations on your machines.
ServiceNow's integration now includes Configuration Compliance module
September 4, 2024
Defender for Cloud's CSPM plan's integration with ServiceNow now includes ServiceNow's Configuration Compliance module. This feature allows you to identify, prioritize, and remediate configuration issues in your cloud assets while reducing security risks and improving your overall compliance posture through automated workflows and real-time insights.
Learn more aboutServiceNow's integration with Defender for Cloud.
Defender for Storage (classic) per-transaction storage protection plan not available for new subscriptions
September 4, 2024
Estimated date for change: February 5, 2025
After February 5, 2025, you won't be able to activate the legacy Defender for Storage (classic) per-transaction storage protection plan unless it's already enabled in your subscription. For more information, seeMove to the new Defender for Storage plan.
Azure Policy guest configuration is now generally available (GA)
September 1, 2024
Defender for Server's Azure Policy guest configuration is now generally available (GA) for all multicloud Defender for Servers Plan 2 customers. Guest Configuration provides a unified experience for managing security baselines across your environment. It enables you to assess and enforce security configurations on your servers, including Windows and Linux machines, Azure VMs, AWS EC2, and GCP instances.
Learn how toenable Azure Policy machine configuration on your environment.
Preview for Docker Hub container registry support by Defender for Containers
September 1, 2024
We're introducing the public preview of the Microsoft Defender for Containers extension of coverage to include external registries, beginning with Docker Hub container registries. As part of your organization's Microsoft Cloud Security Posture Management, the extension of coverage to Docker Hub container registries provides the benefits of scanning your Docker Hub container images  using Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management to identify security threats and mitigate potential security risks.
For more information about this feature, seeVulnerability Assessment for Docker Hub
Next steps
CheckWhat's new in security recommendations and alerts.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources