Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
An overview of Azure VM backup
Article
2024-09-11
26 contributors
In this article
This article describes how theAzure Backup servicebacks up Azure virtual machines (VMs).
Azure Backup provides independent and isolated backups to guard against unintended destruction of the data on your VMs. Backups are stored in a Recovery Services vault with built-in management of recovery points. Configuration and scaling are simple, backups are optimized, and you can easily restore as needed.
As part of the backup process, asnapshot is taken, and the data is transferred to the Recovery Services vault with no impact on production workloads. The snapshot provides different levels of consistency, as describedhere. You can opt for an agent-based application-consistent/file-consistent backup or an agentless crash-consistent backup in the backup policy.
Azure Backup also has specialized offerings for database workloads likeSQL ServerandSAP HANAthat are workload-aware, offer 15 minute RPO (recovery point objective), and allow backup and restore of individual databases.
You can now also back up your virtual machines with Azure Backup in Azure Extended Zones (preview).Azure Extended Zones(preview) provide enhanced resiliency by distributing resources across multiple physical locations within an Azure region. This approach minimizes the impact of potential failures for critical infrastructure. By using Extended Zones, your organizations can achieve higher availability and fault tolerance for their applications. Learn how toback up an Azure VM in Azure Extended Zones (preview).
Backup process
Here's how Azure Backup completes a backup for Azure VMs:
For Azure VMs that are selected for backup, Azure Backup starts a backup job according to the backup schedule you specify.
For Azure VMs that are selected for backup, Azure Backup starts a backup job according to the backup schedule you specify.
If you have opted for application or file-system consistent backups, the VM needs to have a backup extension installed to coordinate for the snapshot process.If you have opted forcrash-consistent backups, no agents are required in the VMs.
If you have opted for application or file-system consistent backups, the VM needs to have a backup extension installed to coordinate for the snapshot process.
If you have opted forcrash-consistent backups, no agents are required in the VMs.
During the first backup, a backup extension is installed on the VM if the VM is running.For Windows VMs, theVMSnapshot extensionis installed.For Linux VMs, theVMSnapshotLinux extensionis installed.
During the first backup, a backup extension is installed on the VM if the VM is running.
For Windows VMs, theVMSnapshot extensionis installed.
For Linux VMs, theVMSnapshotLinux extensionis installed.
For Windows VMs that are running, Azure Backup coordinates with Windows Volume Shadow Copy Service (VSS) to take an app-consistent snapshot of the VM.By default, Backup takes full VSS backups.If Backup can't take an app-consistent snapshot, then it takes a file-consistent snapshot of the underlying storage (because no application writes occur while the VM is stopped).
For Windows VMs that are running, Azure Backup coordinates with Windows Volume Shadow Copy Service (VSS) to take an app-consistent snapshot of the VM.
By default, Backup takes full VSS backups.
If Backup can't take an app-consistent snapshot, then it takes a file-consistent snapshot of the underlying storage (because no application writes occur while the VM is stopped).
For Linux VMs, Backup takes a file-consistent backup. For app-consistent snapshots, you need to manually customize pre/post scripts.
For Linux VMs, Backup takes a file-consistent backup. For app-consistent snapshots, you need to manually customize pre/post scripts.
For Windows VMs,Microsoft Visual C++ 2015 Redistributable (x64) version 14.40.33810.0is installed, the startup of Volume Shadow Copy Service (VSS) is changed to automatic, and a Windows ServiceIaaSVmProvideris added.
For Windows VMs,Microsoft Visual C++ 2015 Redistributable (x64) version 14.40.33810.0is installed, the startup of Volume Shadow Copy Service (VSS) is changed to automatic, and a Windows ServiceIaaSVmProvideris added.
After Backup takes the snapshot, it transfers the data to the vault.The backup is optimized by backing up each VM disk in parallel.For each disk that's being backed up, Azure Backup reads the blocks on the disk and identifies and transfers only the data blocks that changed (the delta) since the previous backup.Snapshot data might not be immediately copied to the vault. It might take some hours at peak times. Total backup time for a VM will be less than 24 hours for daily backup policies.
After Backup takes the snapshot, it transfers the data to the vault.
The backup is optimized by backing up each VM disk in parallel.
For each disk that's being backed up, Azure Backup reads the blocks on the disk and identifies and transfers only the data blocks that changed (the delta) since the previous backup.
Snapshot data might not be immediately copied to the vault. It might take some hours at peak times. Total backup time for a VM will be less than 24 hours for daily backup policies.

Encryption of Azure VM backups
When you back up Azure VMs with Azure Backup, VMs are encrypted at rest with Storage Service Encryption (SSE). Azure Backup can also back up Azure VMs that are encrypted by using Azure Disk Encryption.
SSE with platform-managed keys: This encryption is by default for all disks in your VMs. See morehere.
SSE with customer-managed keys. With CMK, you manage the keys used to encrypt the disks. See morehere.
For managed and unmanaged Azure VMs, Backup supports both VMs encrypted with BEKs only or VMs encrypted with BEKs together with KEKs.
The backed-up BEKs (secrets) and KEKs (keys) are encrypted. They can be read and used only when they're restored back to the key vault by authorized users. Neither unauthorized users, or Azure, can read or use backed-up keys or secrets.
BEKs are also backed up. So, if the BEKs are lost, authorized users can restore the BEKs to the key vault and recover the encrypted VMs. Only users with the necessary level of permissions can back up and restore encrypted VMs or keys and secrets.
Snapshot creation
Azure Backup takes snapshots according to the backup schedule.
If you have opted for application or file-system-consistent backups, the VM needs to have a backup extension installed to coordinate for the snapshot process. Foragentless multi-disk crash-consistentbackups, the VM agent is not required for snapshots.
Windows VMs:For Windows VMs, the Backup service coordinates with VSS to take an app-consistent snapshot of the VM disks.  By default, Azure Backup takes a full VSS backup (it truncates the logs of application such as SQL Server at the time of backup to get application level consistent backup).  If you're using a SQL Server database on Azure VM backup, then you can modify the setting to take a VSS Copy backup (to preserve logs). For more information, seethis article.
Windows VMs:For Windows VMs, the Backup service coordinates with VSS to take an app-consistent snapshot of the VM disks.  By default, Azure Backup takes a full VSS backup (it truncates the logs of application such as SQL Server at the time of backup to get application level consistent backup).  If you're using a SQL Server database on Azure VM backup, then you can modify the setting to take a VSS Copy backup (to preserve logs). For more information, seethis article.
Linux VMs:To take app-consistent snapshots of Linux VMs, use the Linux pre-script and post-script framework to write your own custom scripts to ensure consistency.Azure Backup invokes only the pre/post scripts written by you.If the pre-scripts and post-scripts execute successfully, Azure Backup marks the recovery point as application-consistent. However, when you're using custom scripts, you're ultimately responsible for the application consistency.Learn moreabout how to configure scripts.
Linux VMs:To take app-consistent snapshots of Linux VMs, use the Linux pre-script and post-script framework to write your own custom scripts to ensure consistency.
Azure Backup invokes only the pre/post scripts written by you.
If the pre-scripts and post-scripts execute successfully, Azure Backup marks the recovery point as application-consistent. However, when you're using custom scripts, you're ultimately responsible for the application consistency.
Learn moreabout how to configure scripts.
Snapshot consistency
The following table explains the different types of snapshot consistency:
Note
If the provisioning state issucceeded, Azure Backup takes file-system consistent backups. If the provisioning state isunavailableorfailed, crash-consistent backups are taken. If the provisioning state iscreatingordeleting, that means Azure Backup is retrying the operations.
Backup and restore considerations
Note
Azure Backup now enables you to back up your Azure VMs multiple times a day using the Enhanced policy. With this capability, you can also define the duration in which your backup jobs would trigger and align your backup schedule with the working hours when there are frequent updates to Azure Virtual Machines.Learn more.
Backup performance
These common scenarios can affect the total backup time:
Adding a new disk to a protected Azure VM:If a VM is undergoing incremental backup and a new disk is added, the backup time will increase. The total backup time might last more than 24 hours because of initial replication of the new disk, along with delta replication of existing disks.
Fragmented disks:Backup operations are faster when disk changes are contiguous. If changes are spread out and fragmented across a disk, backup will be slower.
Disk churn:If protected disks that are undergoing incremental backup have a daily churn of more than 200 GB, backup can take a long time (more than eight hours) to complete.
Backup versions:The latest version of Backup (known as the Instant Restore version) uses a more optimized process than checksum comparison for identifying changes. But if you're using Instant Restore and have deleted a backup snapshot, the backup switches to checksum comparison. In this case, the backup operation will exceed 24 hours (or fail).
Restore performance
These common scenarios can affect the total restore time:
The total restore time depends on the Input/output operations per second (IOPS) and the throughput of the storage account.
The total restore time can be affected if the target storage account is loaded with other application read and write operations. To improve restore operation, select a storage account that isn't loaded with other application data.
Best practices
When you're configuring VM backups, we suggest following these practices:
Modify the default schedule times that are set in a policy. For example, if the default time in the policy is 12:00 AM, increment the timing by several minutes so that resources are optimally used.
If you're restoring VMs from a single vault, we highly recommend that you use differentgeneral-purpose v2 storage accountsto ensure that the target storage account doesn't get throttled. For example, each VM must have a different storage account. For example, if 10 VMs are restored, use 10 different storage accounts.
For backup of VMs that are using premium storage with Instant Restore, we recommend allocating50%free space of the total allocated storage space, which is requiredonlyfor the first backup. The 50% free space isn't a requirement for backups after the first backup is complete
The limit on the number of disks per storage account is relative to how heavily the disks are being accessed by applications that are running on an infrastructure as a service (IaaS) VM. As a general practice, if 5 to 10 disks or more are present on a single storage account, balance the load by moving some disks to separate storage accounts.
To restore VMs with managed disks using PowerShell, provide the additional parameterTargetResourceGroupNameto specify the resource group to which managed disks will be restored,Learn more here.
Backup costs
Azure VMs backed up with Azure Backup are subject toAzure Backup pricing.
Billing doesn't start until the first successful backup finishes. At this point, the billing for both storage and protected VMs begins. Billing continues as long as any backup data for the VM is stored in a vault. If you stop protection for a VM, but backup data for the VM exists in a vault, billing continues.
Billing for a specified VM stops only if the protection is stopped and all backup data is deleted. When protection stops and there are no active backup jobs, the size of the last successful VM backup becomes the protected instance size used for the monthly bill.
If you have opted for agent-based application consistent or file-system consistent backups, the protected-instance size calculation is based on theactualsize of the VM. The VM's size is the sum of all the data in the VM, excluding the temporary storage. Pricing is based on the actual data that's stored on the data disks, not on the maximum supported size for each data disk that's attached to the VM.
Note
Foragentless crash-consistent backups, you're currently charged for 0.5 protected instance (PI) per VM during preview.
Similarly, the backup storage bill is based on the amount of data that's stored in Azure Backup, which is the sum of the actual data in each recovery point.
For example, take an A2-Standard-sized VM that has two additional data disks with a maximum size of 32 TB each. The following table shows the actual data stored on each of these disks:
The actual size of the VM in this case is 17 GB + 30 GB + 0 GB = 47 GB. This protected-instance size (47 GB) becomes the basis for the monthly bill. As the amount of data in the VM grows, the protected-instance size used for billing changes to match.
Next steps
Prepare for Azure VM backup.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources