Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Center for Internet Security (CIS) Azure Linux benchmark
Article
2024-08-01
7 contributors
In this article
The security OS configuration applied to the Azure Linux Container Host for AKS image is based on the Azure Linux security baseline, which aligns with the CIS benchmark. As a secure service, AKS complies with SOC, ISO, PCI DSS, and HIPAA standards. For more information about the Azure Linux Container Host security, seeSecurity concepts for clusters in AKS. To learn more about the CIS benchmark, seeCenter for Internet Security (CIS) Benchmarks. For more information on the Azure security baselines for Linux, seeLinux security baseline.
Azure Linux 2.0
This Azure Linux Container Host operating system is based on theAzure Linux 2.0image with built-in security configurations applied.
As part of the security-optimized operating system:
AKS and Azure Linux provide a security-optimized host OS by default with no option to select an alternate operating system.
The security-optimized host OS is built and maintained specifically for AKS and isnotsupported outside of the AKS platform.
Unnecessary kernel module drivers have been disabled in the OS to reduce the attack surface.
Recommendations
The below table has four sections:
CIS ID:The associated rule ID with each of the baseline rules.
Recommendation description:A description of the recommendation issued by the CIS benchmark.
Level:L1, or Level 1, recommends essential basic security requirements that can be configured on any system and should cause little or no interruption of service or reduced functionality.
Status:Pass- The recommendation has been applied.Fail- The recommendation hasn't been applied.N/A- The recommendation relates to manifest file permission requirements that aren't relevant to AKS.Depends on Environment- The recommendation is applied in the user's specific environment and isn't controlled by AKS.Equivalent Control- The recommendation has been implemented in a different equivalent manner.
Pass- The recommendation has been applied.
Fail- The recommendation hasn't been applied.
N/A- The recommendation relates to manifest file permission requirements that aren't relevant to AKS.
Depends on Environment- The recommendation is applied in the user's specific environment and isn't controlled by AKS.
Equivalent Control- The recommendation has been implemented in a different equivalent manner.
Reason:Potential Operation Impact- The recommendation wasn't applied because it would have a negative effect on the service.Covered Elsewhere- The recommendation is covered by another control in Azure cloud compute.
Potential Operation Impact- The recommendation wasn't applied because it would have a negative effect on the service.
Covered Elsewhere- The recommendation is covered by another control in Azure cloud compute.
The following are the results from theCIS Azure Linux 2.0 Benchmark v1.0recommendations based on the CIS rules:
Next steps
For more information about Azure Linux Container Host security, see the following articles:
Azure Linux Container Host for AKS
Security concepts for clusters in AKS
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources