Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Enable DevSecOps with Azure and GitHub
Article
2022-11-28
4 contributors
In this article
DevSecOps, sometimes called Secure DevOps, builds on the principles ofDevOpsbut puts security at the center of the entire application lifecycle. This concept is called “shift-left security”: it moves security upstream from a production-only concern to encompass the early stages of planning and development. Every team and person that works on an application is required to consider security.
Microsoft and GitHub offer solutions to build confidence in the code that you run in production. These solutions inspect your code and allow its traceability down to the work items and insights on the third-party components that are in use.
Secure your code with GitHub
Developers can use code scanning tools that quickly and automatically analyze the code in a GitHub repository to find security vulnerabilities and coding errors.
You can scan code to find, triage, and prioritize fixes for existing problems. Code scanning also prevents developers from introducing new problems. You can schedule scans for specific days and times, or trigger scans when a specific event occurs in the repository, such as a push. You can also track your repository's dependencies and receive security alerts when GitHub detects vulnerable dependencies.
Scan your code with CodeQL and token scanning
Manage security advisories for your projects
Secure your code's dependencies with Dependabot
Track your work with Azure Boards
Teams can use Azure Boards web service to manage software projects. Azure Boards provides a rich set of capabilities, including native support for Scrum and Kanban, customizable dashboards, and integrated reporting.
Plan and track work with Azure Boards
Connect Azure Boards with GitHub
Build and deploy containers with Azure Pipelines
Integrate Azure Pipelines and Kubernetes clusters with ease. You can use the same YAML documents to build multi-stage pipelines-as-code for both continuous integration and continuous delivery.
Azure Pipelines integrates metadata tracing into your container images, including commit hashes and issue numbers from Azure Boards, so that you can inspect your applications with confidence.
The ability to create deployment pipelines with YAML files and store them in source control helps drive a tighter feedback loop between development and operation teams who rely on clear, readable documents.
Store Docker images in Azure Container Registry
Build a Docker image with Azure Pipelines
Deploy to Kubernetes with full traceability
Secure your Azure Pipelines
Run and debug containers with Bridge to Kubernetes
Developing a Kubernetes application can be challenging. You need Docker and Kubernetes configuration files. You need to figure out how to test your application locally and interact with other dependent services. You might need to develop and test multiple services at once and with a team of developers.
Bridge to Kubernetes allows you to run and debug code on your development computer, while still connected to your Kubernetes cluster with the rest of your application or services. You can test your code end-to-end, hit breakpoints on code running in the cluster, and share a development cluster between team members without interference.
Learn more about Bridge to Kubernetes
Enforce container security with Microsoft Defender for Containers and Azure Policy
Microsoft Defender for Containers is the cloud-native solution for securing your containers.
Overview of Microsoft Defender for Containers
Understand Azure Policy for Kubernetes clusters
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Manage identities and access with the Microsoft identity platform
The Microsoft identity platform is an evolution of the Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) developer platform. It allows developers to build applications that sign in all Microsoft identities and get tokens to call Microsoft APIs, such as Microsoft Graph, or APIs that developers have built.
Microsoft identity platform documentation
Azure AD B2C provides business-to-customer identity as a service. Your customers use their preferred social, enterprise, or local account identities to get single sign-on access to your applications and APIs.
Azure AD B2C documentation
Access management for cloud resources is a critical function for any organization that uses the cloud. Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) helps you manage who has access to Azure resources, what they can do with those resources, and what areas they can access.
Learn about access management with Azure RBAC
You can use the Microsoft identity platform to authenticate with the rest of your DevOps tools, including native support within Azure DevOps and integrations with GitHub Enterprise.
Authenticate to GitHub Enterprise
Currently, an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster (specifically, the Kubernetes cloud provider) requires an identity to create additional resources like load balancers and managed disks in Azure. This identity can be either a managed identity or a service principal. If you use a service principal, you must either provide one or AKS creates one on your behalf. If you use managed identity, one will be created for you by AKS automatically. For clusters that use service principals, the service principal must be renewed eventually to keep the cluster working. Managing service principals adds complexity, which is why it's easier to use managed identities instead. The same permission requirements apply for both service principals and managed identities.
Managed identities are essentially a wrapper around service principals, and make their management simpler.
Use managed identities in AKS
Manage keys and secrets with Azure Key Vault
Azure Key Vault can be used to securely store and control access to tokens, passwords, certificates, API keys, and other secrets. Centralizing storage of application secrets in Key Vault allows you to control their distribution. Key Vault greatly reduces the chances that secrets may be accidentally leaked. When you use Key Vault, application developers no longer need to store security information in their application, which eliminates the need to make this information part of the code. For example, an application may need to connect to a database. Instead of storing the connection string in the app's code, you can store it securely in Key Vault.
Store certificates, keys, and secrets with Azure Key Vault
Monitor your applications
With Azure Monitor, you can monitor both your application and infrastructure in real-time, identifying issues with your code and potential suspicious activities and anomalies. Azure Monitor integrates with release pipelines in Azure Pipelines to enable automatic approval of quality gates or release rollback based on monitoring data.
Learn how to monitor your applications and infrastructure using Azure Application Insights and Azure Monitor.
Application performance management with Application Insights
Monitor containerized applications with Azure Monitor
Build the right architecture
Security is one of the most important aspects of any architecture. Security provides confidentiality, integrity, and availability assurances against deliberate attacks and abuse of your valuable data and systems. Losing these assurances can negatively impact your business operations and revenue, as well as your organization’s reputation in the marketplace.
Applications and services architecture
DevSecOps architecture
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources