Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Compare vCore and DTU-based purchasing models of Azure SQL Database
Article
2024-09-27
14 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL Database
This article compares the two purchasing models forAzure SQL Database:
vCore-based purchasing model (recommended)
DTU-based purchasing model
Purchasing models
There are two purchasing models for Azure SQL Database:
ThevCore-based purchasing modelprovides a choice between the provisioned or serverless compute tiers:With theprovisionedcompute tier, you choose the exact amount of compute resources that are always provisioned for your workload.With theserverlesscompute tier, you specify the autoscaling of the compute resources over a configurable compute range. The serverless compute tier automatically pauses databases during inactive periods when only storage is billed and automatically resumes databases when activity returns. The vCore unit price per unit of time is lower in the provisioned compute tier than it is in the serverless compute tier.
With theprovisionedcompute tier, you choose the exact amount of compute resources that are always provisioned for your workload.
With theserverlesscompute tier, you specify the autoscaling of the compute resources over a configurable compute range. The serverless compute tier automatically pauses databases during inactive periods when only storage is billed and automatically resumes databases when activity returns. The vCore unit price per unit of time is lower in the provisioned compute tier than it is in the serverless compute tier.
TheDTU-based purchasing modelprovides bundled compute and storage packages balanced for common workloads.
The following table and chart compares and contrasts the vCore-based and the DTU-based purchasing models:

vCore purchasing model
A virtual core (vCore) represents a logical CPU and offers you the option to choose between generations of hardware and the physical characteristics of the hardware (for example, the number of cores, the memory, and the storage size). The vCore-based purchasing model gives you flexibility, control, transparency of individual resource consumption, and a straightforward way to translate on-premises workload requirements to the cloud. This model allows you to choose compute, memory, and storage resources based on your workload needs.
The vCore-based purchasing model has three service tiers:General Purpose,Business Critical, andHyperscaleservice tiers. Reviewservice tiersto learn more.
In the vCore-based purchasing model, your costs depend on the choice and usage of:
Service tier
Hardware configuration
Compute resources (the number of vCores and the amount of memory)
Reserved database storage
Actual backup storage
DTU purchasing model
The DTU-based purchasing model uses a database transaction unit (DTU) to calculate and bundle compute costs. A database transaction unit (DTU) represents a blended measure of CPU, memory, reads, and writes. The DTU-based purchasing model offers a set of preconfigured bundles of compute resources and included storage to drive different levels of application performance. If you prefer the simplicity of a preconfigured bundle and fixed payments each month, the DTU-based model might be more suitable for your needs.
In the DTU-based purchasing model, you can choose between theBasic,Standard, andPremiumservice tiers for Azure SQL Database. ReviewDTU service tiersto learn more.
To convert from the DTU-based purchasing model to the vCore-based purchasing model, seeMigrate from the DTU to vCore.
Compute costs
Compute costs are calculated differently based on each purchasing model.
DTU compute costs
In the DTU purchasing model, DTUs are offered in preconfigured bundles of compute resources and included storage to drive different levels of application performance. You're billed by the number of DTUs you allocate to your database for your application.
vCore compute costs
In the vCore-based purchasing model, choose between the provisioned compute tier, or theserverless compute tier. In the provisioned compute tier, the compute cost reflects the total compute capacity that is provisioned for the application. In the serverless compute tier, compute resources are autoscaled based on workload capacity and billed for the amount of compute used, per second.
For single databases, compute resources, I/O, and data and log storage are charged per database. For elastic pools, these resources are charged per pool. However, backup storage is always charged per database.
Since three additional replicas are automatically allocated in the Business Critical service tier, the price is approximately 2.7 times higher than it is in the General Purpose service tier. Likewise, the higher storage price per GB in the Business Critical service tier reflects the higher IO limits and lower latency of the local SSD storage.
Storage costs
Storage costs are calculated differently based on each purchasing model.
DTU storage costs
Storage is included in the price of the DTU. It's possible to add extra storage in the Standard and Premium tiers. See thepricing optionsfor details on provisioning extra storage.
Long-term retentionisn't included, and is billed separately.
vCore storage costs
Different types of storage are billed differently.
For data storage, you're charged for the provisioned storage based upon the maximum database or pool size you select. The cost doesn't change unless you reduce or increase that maximum.
Backup storage is associated with automated backups of your databases and is allocated dynamically. Increasing your backup retention period will increase the backup storage required by your databases.
The cost of backup storage is the same for the Business Critical service tier and the General Purpose service tier because both tiers use standard storage for backups.
By default, seven days of automated backups of your databases are copied to a storage account. This storage is used by full backups, differential backups, and transaction log backups. The size of differential and transaction log backups depends on the rate of change of the database. A minimum storage amount equal to 100 percent of the maximum data size for the database is provided at no extra charge. Additional consumption of backup storage is charged in GB per month.
For more information about storage prices, seeAzure SQL Database pricing.
Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
Do I need to take my application offline to convert from a DTU-based service tier to a vCore-based service tier?
No. You don't need to take the application offline. The new service tiers offer a simple online-conversion method that's similar to the existing process of upgrading databases from the Standard to the Premium service tier and the other way around. You can start this conversion by using the Azure portal, PowerShell, the Azure CLI, T-SQL, or the REST API.  Seemigrate DTU to vCoreandscale elastic poolsfor more information.
Can I convert a database from a service tier in the vCore-based purchasing model to a service tier in the DTU-based purchasing model?
Yes, you can easily convert your database to any supported performance objective by using the Azure portal, PowerShell, the Azure CLI, T-SQL, or the REST API. Seemigrate DTU to vCoreandscale elastic poolsfor more information.
Related content
vCore-based purchasing model
DTU-based purchasing model overview
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources