Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Authentication and authorization in Azure App Service and Azure Functions
Article
2025-03-28
23 contributors
In this article
Azure App Service provides built-in authentication (signing in users) and authorization (providing access to secure data) capabilities. These capabilities are sometimes calledEasy Auth. You can use them to sign in users and access data by writing little or no code in your web app, RESTful API, mobile server, andfunctions.

Note
Starting June 1, 2024, newly created App Service apps can generate a unique default host name that uses the naming convention<app-name>-<random-hash>.<region>.azurewebsites.net. For example:myapp-ds27dh7271aah175.westus-01.azurewebsites.net. Existing app names remain unchanged.
<app-name>-<random-hash>.<region>.azurewebsites.net
myapp-ds27dh7271aah175.westus-01.azurewebsites.net
For more information, see theblog post about creating a web app with a unique default host name.
This article describes how App Service helps simplify authentication and authorization for your app.
Reasons to use built-in authentication
To implement authentication and authorization, you can use the bundled security features in your web framework of choice, or you can write your own tools. Implementing a secure solution for authentication and authorization can take significant effort. You need to follow industry best practices and standards. You also need to ensure that your solution stays up to date with the latest security, protocol, and browser updates.
The built-in capabilities of App Service and Azure Functions can save you time and effort by providing out-of-the-box authentication with federated identity providers, so you can focus on the rest of your application.
With App Service, you can integrate authentication capabilities into your web app or API without implementing them yourself. This feature is built directly into the platform and doesn't require any particular language, SDK, security expertise, or code. You can integrate it with multiple sign-in providers, such as Microsoft Entra, Facebook, Google, and X.
Your app might need to support more complex scenarios, such as Visual Studio integration or incremental consent. Several authentication solutions are available to support these scenarios. To learn more, seeAuthentication scenarios and recommendations.
Identity providers
App Service usesfederated identity. A Microsoft or non-Microsoft identity provider manages the user identities and authentication flow for you. The following identity providers are available by default:
/.auth/login/aad
/.auth/login/facebook
/.auth/login/google
/.auth/login/x
/.auth/login/github
/.auth/login/apple
/.auth/login/<providerName>
When you configure this feature with one of these providers, its sign-in endpoint is available for user authentication and for validation of authentication tokens from the provider. You can provide your users with any number of these sign-in options.
Considerations for using built-in authentication
Enabling built-in authentication causes all requests to your application to be automatically redirected to HTTPS, regardless of the App Service configuration setting to enforce HTTPS. You can disable this automatic redirection by using therequireHttpssetting in the V2 configuration. However, we recommend that you keep using HTTPS and ensure that no security tokens are ever transmitted over nonsecure HTTP connections.
requireHttps
You can use App Service for authentication with or without restricting access to your site content and APIs. Set access restrictions in theSettings>Authentication>Authentication settingssection of your web app:
To restrict app access to only authenticated users, setAction to take when request is not authenticatedto sign in with one of the configured identity providers.
To authenticate but not restrict access, setAction to take when request is not authenticatedtoAllow anonymous requests (no action).
Important
You should give each app registration its own permission and consent. Avoid permission sharing between environments by using separate app registrations for separate deployment slots. When you're testing new code, this practice can help prevent problems from affecting the production app.
How it works
Feature architecture
The authentication and authorization middleware component is a feature of the platform that runs on the same virtual machine as your application. When you enable it, every incoming HTTP request passes through that component before your application handles it.

The platform middleware handles several things for your app:
Authenticates users and clients with the specified identity providers
Validates, stores, and refreshes OAuth tokens that the configured identity providers issued
Manages the authenticated session
Injects identity information into HTTP request headers
The module runs separately from your application code. You can configure it by using Azure Resource Manager settings or by usinga configuration file. No SDKs, specific programming languages, or changes to your application code are required.
The authentication and authorization module runs as a nativeIIS modulein the same sandbox as your application. When you enable it, every incoming HTTP request passes through it before your application handles it.
The authentication and authorization module runs in a separate container that's isolated from your application code. The module uses theAmbassador patternto interact with the incoming traffic to perform similar functionality as on Windows. Because it doesn't run in process, no direct integration with specific language frameworks is possible. However, the relevant information that your app needs is passed through in request headers.
Authentication flow
The authentication flow is the same for all providers. It differs depending on whether you want to sign in with the provider's SDK:
Without provider SDK: The application delegates federated sign-in to App Service. This delegation is typically the case with browser apps, which can present the provider's sign-in page to the user. The server code manages the sign-in process, so it's also calledserver-directed floworserver flow.This case applies to browser apps and mobile apps that use an embedded browser for authentication.
Without provider SDK: The application delegates federated sign-in to App Service. This delegation is typically the case with browser apps, which can present the provider's sign-in page to the user. The server code manages the sign-in process, so it's also calledserver-directed floworserver flow.
This case applies to browser apps and mobile apps that use an embedded browser for authentication.
With provider SDK: The application signs in users to the provider manually. Then it submits the authentication token to App Service for validation. This process is typically the case with browserless apps, which can't present the provider's sign-in page to the user. The application code manages the sign-in process, so it's also calledclient-directed floworclient flow.This case applies to REST APIs,Azure Functions, and JavaScript browser clients, in addition to browser apps that need more flexibility in the sign-in process. It also applies to native mobile apps that sign in users by using the provider's SDK.
With provider SDK: The application signs in users to the provider manually. Then it submits the authentication token to App Service for validation. This process is typically the case with browserless apps, which can't present the provider's sign-in page to the user. The application code manages the sign-in process, so it's also calledclient-directed floworclient flow.
This case applies to REST APIs,Azure Functions, and JavaScript browser clients, in addition to browser apps that need more flexibility in the sign-in process. It also applies to native mobile apps that sign in users by using the provider's SDK.
Calls from a trusted browser app in App Service to another REST API in App Service orAzure Functionscan be authenticated through the server-directed flow. For more information, seeCustomize sign-in and sign-out in Azure App Service authentication.
The following table shows the steps of the authentication flow.
/.auth/login/<provider>
/.auth/login/<provider>/callback
/.auth/login/<provider>
X-ZUMO-AUTH
For client browsers, App Service can automatically direct all unauthenticated users to/.auth/login/<provider>. You can also present users with one or more/.auth/login/<provider>links to sign in to your app by using their provider of choice.
/.auth/login/<provider>
/.auth/login/<provider>

Authorization behavior
In theAzure portal, you can configure App Service with various behaviors when an incoming request isn't authenticated. The following sections describe the options.
Important
By default, this feature provides only authentication, not authorization. Your application might still need to make authorization decisions, in addition to any checks that you configure here.
Allow unauthenticated requests: This option defers authorization of unauthenticated traffic to your application code. For authenticated requests, App Service also passes along authentication information in the HTTP headers.This option provides more flexibility in handling anonymous requests. For example, it lets youpresent multiple sign-in providersto your users. However, you must write code.
Allow unauthenticated requests: This option defers authorization of unauthenticated traffic to your application code. For authenticated requests, App Service also passes along authentication information in the HTTP headers.
This option provides more flexibility in handling anonymous requests. For example, it lets youpresent multiple sign-in providersto your users. However, you must write code.
Require authentication: This option rejects any unauthenticated traffic to your application. Specific action to take is specified in theUnauthenticated requestssection later in this article.With this option, you don't need to write any authentication code in your app. You can handle finer authorization, such as role-specific authorization, byinspecting the user's claims.CautionRestricting access in this way applies to all calls to your app, which may not be desirable for apps wanting a publicly available home page, as in many single-page applications. If exceptions are needed, you need toconfigure excluded paths in a configuration-file.NoteWhen using the Microsoft identity provider for users in your organization, the default behavior is that any user in your Microsoft Entra tenant can request a token for your application. You canconfigure the application in Microsoft Entraif you want to restrict access to your app to a defined set of users. App Service also offers somebasic built-in authorization checkswhich can help with some validations. To learn more about authorization in Microsoft Entra, seeMicrosoft Entra authorization basics.
Require authentication: This option rejects any unauthenticated traffic to your application. Specific action to take is specified in theUnauthenticated requestssection later in this article.
With this option, you don't need to write any authentication code in your app. You can handle finer authorization, such as role-specific authorization, byinspecting the user's claims.
Caution
Restricting access in this way applies to all calls to your app, which may not be desirable for apps wanting a publicly available home page, as in many single-page applications. If exceptions are needed, you need toconfigure excluded paths in a configuration-file.
Note
When using the Microsoft identity provider for users in your organization, the default behavior is that any user in your Microsoft Entra tenant can request a token for your application. You canconfigure the application in Microsoft Entraif you want to restrict access to your app to a defined set of users. App Service also offers somebasic built-in authorization checkswhich can help with some validations. To learn more about authorization in Microsoft Entra, seeMicrosoft Entra authorization basics.
When you're using the Microsoft identity provider for users in your organization, the default behavior is that any user in your Microsoft Entra tenant can request a token for your application. You canconfigure the application in Microsoft Entraif you want to restrict access to your app to a defined set of users. App Service also offers somebasic built-in authorization checksthat can help with some validations. To learn more about authorization in Microsoft Entra, seeMicrosoft Entra authorization basics.
HTTP 302 Found redirect: recommended for websites: Redirects action to one of the configured identity providers. In these cases, a browser client is redirected to/.auth/login/<provider>for the provider that you choose.
/.auth/login/<provider>
HTTP 401 Unauthorized: recommended for APIs: Returns anHTTP 401 Unauthorizedresponse if the anonymous request comes from a native mobile app. You can also configure the rejection to beHTTP 401 Unauthorizedfor all requests.
HTTP 401 Unauthorized
HTTP 401 Unauthorized
HTTP 403 Forbidden: Configures the rejection to beHTTP 403 Forbiddenfor all requests.
HTTP 403 Forbidden
HTTP 404 Not found: Configures the rejection to beHTTP 404 Not foundfor all requests.
HTTP 404 Not found
Token store
App Service provides a built-in token store. A token store is a repository of tokens that are associated with the users of your web apps, APIs, or native mobile apps. When you enable authentication with any provider, this token store is immediately available to your app.
If your application code needs to access data from these providers on the user's behalf, you typically must write code to collect, store, and refresh these tokens in your application. Actions might include:
Post to the authenticated user's Facebook timeline.
Read the user's corporate data by using the Microsoft Graph API.
With the token store, you justretrieve the tokenswhen you need them andtell App Service to refresh themwhen they become invalid.
The ID tokens, access tokens, and refresh tokens are cached for the authenticated session. Only the associated user can access them.
If you don't need to work with tokens in your app, you can disable the token store on your app'sSettings>Authenticationpage.
Logging and tracing
If youenable application logging, authentication and authorization traces appear directly in your log files. If you see an authentication error that you didn't expect, you can conveniently find all the details by looking in your existing application logs.
If you enablefailed request tracing, you can see exactly what role the authentication and authorization module might play in a failed request. In the trace logs, look for references to a module namedEasyAuthModule_32/64.
EasyAuthModule_32/64
Mitigation of cross-site request forgery
App Service authentication mitigates cross-site request forgery by inspecting client requests for the following conditions:
It's aPOSTrequest that authenticated through a session cookie.
POST
The request came from a known browser, as determined by the HTTPUser-Agentheader.
User-Agent
The HTTPOriginor HTTPRefererheader is missing or isn't in the configured list of approved external domains for redirection.
Origin
Referer
The HTTPOriginheader is missing or isn't in the configured list of cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) origins.
Origin
When a request fulfills all these conditions, App Service authentication automatically rejects it. You can work around this mitigation logic by adding your external domain to the redirect list inSettings>Authentication>Edit authentication settings>Allowed external redirect URLs.
Considerations for using Azure Front Door
When you're using Azure App Service with authentication behind Azure Front Door or other reverse proxies, consider the following actions.
Disable Azure Front Door caching
DisableAzure Front Door cachingfor the authentication workflow.
Use the Azure Front Door endpoint for redirects
App Service is usually not accessible directly when it's exposed by Azure Front Door. You can prevent this behavior, for example, by exposing App Service by using Azure Private Link in Azure Front Door Premium. To prevent the authentication workflow from redirecting traffic back to App Service directly, it's important to configure the application to redirect back tohttps://<front-door-endpoint>/.auth/login/<provider>/callback.
https://<front-door-endpoint>/.auth/login/<provider>/callback
Ensure that App Service is using the right redirect URI
In some configurations, App Service uses its fully qualified domain name (FQDN) as the redirect URI, instead of the Azure Front Door FQDN. This configuration causes a problem when the client is redirected to App Service instead of Azure Front Door. To change it, setforwardProxytoStandardto make App Service respect theX-Forwarded-Hostheader that Azure Front Door set.
forwardProxy
Standard
X-Forwarded-Host
Other reverse proxies, like Azure Application Gateway or non-Microsoft products, might use different headers and need a differentforwardProxysetting.
forwardProxy
You can't change theforwardProxyconfiguration by using the Azure portal. You need to useaz rest.
forwardProxy
az rest
az rest --uri /subscriptions/REPLACE-ME-SUBSCRIPTIONID/resourceGroups/REPLACE-ME-RESOURCEGROUP/providers/Microsoft.Web/sites/REPLACE-ME-APPNAME/config/authsettingsV2?api-version=2020-09-01 --method get > auth.json
az rest --uri /subscriptions/REPLACE-ME-SUBSCRIPTIONID/resourceGroups/REPLACE-ME-RESOURCEGROUP/providers/Microsoft.Web/sites/REPLACE-ME-APPNAME/config/authsettingsV2?api-version=2020-09-01 --method get > auth.json
Search for:
"httpSettings": {
  "forwardProxy": {
    "convention": "Standard"
  }
}
"httpSettings": {
  "forwardProxy": {
    "convention": "Standard"
  }
}
Ensure thatconventionis set toStandardto respect theX-Forwarded-Hostheader that Azure Front Door uses.
convention
Standard
X-Forwarded-Host
az rest --uri /subscriptions/REPLACE-ME-SUBSCRIPTIONID/resourceGroups/REPLACE-ME-RESOURCEGROUP/providers/Microsoft.Web/sites/REPLACE-ME-APPNAME/config/authsettingsV2?api-version=2020-09-01 --method put --body @auth.json
az rest --uri /subscriptions/REPLACE-ME-SUBSCRIPTIONID/resourceGroups/REPLACE-ME-RESOURCEGROUP/providers/Microsoft.Web/sites/REPLACE-ME-APPNAME/config/authsettingsV2?api-version=2020-09-01 --method put --body @auth.json
Related content
For more information about App Service authentication, see:
Configure your App Service or Azure Functions app to use Microsoft Entra sign-in
Customize sign-in and sign-out in Azure App Service authentication
Work with OAuth tokens in Azure App Service authentication
Work with user identities in Azure App Service authentication
File-based configuration in Azure App Service authentication
For samples, see:
Quickstart: Add app authentication to your web app running on Azure App Service
Tutorial: Authenticate and authorize users end to end in Azure App Service
.NET Core integration of Azure AppService Easy Auth(non-Microsoft GitHub content)
Getting Azure App Service authentication working with .NET Core(non-Microsoft GitHub content)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources