Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Understand Azure Front Door billing
Article
2023-12-28
4 contributors
In this article
Azure Front Door provides a rich set of features for your internet-facing workloads. Front Door helps you to accelerate your application's performance, improves your security, and provides you with tools to inspect and modify your HTTP traffic.
Front Door's billing model includes several components. Front Door charges a base fee for each profile that you deploy. You're also charged for requests and data transfer based on your usage.Billing meterscollect information about your Front Door usage. Your monthly Azure bill aggregates the billing information across the month and applies the pricing to determine the amount you need to pay.
This article explains how Front Door pricing works so that you can understand and predict your monthly Azure Front Door bill.
For Azure Front Door pricing information, seeAzure Front Door pricing.
Tip
The Azure pricing calculator helps you to calculate a pricing estimate for your requirements. Use thepre-created pricing calculator estimateas a starting point, and customize it for your own solution.
Note
This article explains how billing works for Azure Front Door Standard and Premium SKUs. For information about Azure Front Door (classic), seeAzure Front Door pricing.
Base fees
Each Front Door profile incurs an hourly fee. You're billed for each hour, or partial hour, that your profile is deployed. The rate you're charged depends on the Front Door tier that you deploy.
A single Front Door profile can contain multipleendpoints. You're not billed extra for each endpoint.
You don't pay extra fees to use features liketraffic acceleration,response caching,response compression, therules engine,Front Door's inherent DDoS protection, andcustom web application firewall (WAF) rules. If you use Front Door Premium, you also don't pay extra fees to usemanaged WAF rule setsorPrivate Link origins.
Request processing and traffic fees
Each request that goes through Front Door incur request processing and traffic fees:

Each part of the request process is billed separately:
Number of requests from client to Front Door
Data transfer from Front Door edge to origin
Data transfer from origin to Front Door (nonbillable)
Data transfer from Front Door to client
The following sections describe each of these request components in more detail.
Number of requests from client to Front Door
Front Door charges a fee for the number of requests that are received at a Front Door edge location for your profile. Front Door identifies requests by using theHostheader on the HTTP request. If theHostheader matches one from your Front Door profile, it counts as a request to your profile.
Host
Host
The price is different depending on the geographical region of the Front Door edge location that serves the request. The price is also different for the Standard and Premium SKUs.
Data transfer from Front Door edge to origin
Front Door charges for the bytes that are sent from the Front Door edge location to your origin server. The price is different depending on the geographical region of the Front Door edge location that serves the request. The location of the origin doesn't affect the price.
The price per gigabyte is lower when you have higher volumes of traffic.
If the request can be served from the Front Door edge location's cache, Front Door doesn't send any request to the origin server, and you aren't billed for this component.
Data transfer from origin to Front Door
When your origin server processes a request, it sends data back to Front Door so that it can be returned to the client. This traffic doesn't get billed by Front Door, even if the origin is in a different region to the Front Door edge location for the request.
If your origin is within Azure, the data egress from the Azure origin to Front Door isn't charged. However, you should determine whether those Azure services might bill you to process your requests.
If your origin is outside of Azure, you might incur charges from other network providers.
Data transfer from Front Door to client
Front Door charges for the bytes that are sent from the Front Door edge location back to the client. The price is different depending on the geographical region of the Front Door edge location that serves the request.
If a response is compressed, Front Door only charges for the compressed data.
Private Link origins
When you use the Premium tier, Front Door canconnect to your origin by using Private Link.
Front Door Premium has a higher base fee and request processing fee. You don't pay extra for Private Link traffic compared to traffic that uses an origin's public endpoint.
When you configure a Private Link origin, you select a region for the private endpoint to use. Asubset of Azure regions support Private Link traffic for Front Door. If the region you select is different to the region the origin is deployed to, there isn't an extra charge for cross-region traffic. However, the request latency likely is greater.
Cross-region traffic
Some of the Front Door billing meters have different rates depending on the location of the Front Door edge location that processes a request. Usually,the Front Door edge location that processes a request is the one that's closest to the client, which helps to reduce latency and maximize performance.
Front Door charges for traffic from the edge location to the origin. Traffic is charged at different rates depending on the location of the Front Door edge location. If your origin is in a different Azure region, you aren't billed extra for inter-region traffic.
Example scenarios
Example 1: Azure origin without caching
Contoso hosts their website on Azure App Service, which runs in the West US region. Contoso deployed Front Door with the standard tier. They disabled caching.
Suppose a request from a client in California is sent to the Contoso website, sending a 1-KB request and receiving a 100-KB response:

The following billing meters are incremented:
Azure App Service might charge other fees.
Example 2: Azure origin with compression enabled
Suppose Contoso updates their Front Door configuration to enablecontent compression. Now, the same response as in example 1 might be able to be compressed down to 30 KB:

The following billing meters are incremented:
Azure App Service might charge other fees.
Example 3: Request served from cache
Suppose a second request arrives at the same Front Door edge location and a valid cached response is available:

The following billing meters are incremented:
Example 4: Cross-region traffic
Suppose a request to Contoso's website comes from a client in Australia, and can't be served from cache:

The following billing meters are incremented:
Example 5: Non-Azure origin
Fabrikam runs an eCommerce site on another cloud provider. Their site is hosted in Europe. They configured Azure Front Door to serve the traffic without caching or compression.
Suppose a request from a client is sent to the Fabrikam website from a client in New York. The client sends a 2-KB request and receives a 350-KB response:

The following billing meters are incremented:
The external cloud provider might charge other fees.
Example 6: Request blocked by web application firewall
When a request gets blocked by the web application firewall (WAF), it isn't sent to the origin. However, Front Door charges the request, and also charges to send a response.
Suppose a Front Door profile includes a custom WAF rule to block requests from a specific IP address in South America. The WAF is configured with a custom error response page, which is 1 KB in size. If a client from the blocked IP address sends a 1-KB request:

The following billing meters are incremented:
Next steps
Learn how tocreate an Front Door profile.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources