Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Getting started with Azure Monitor
Article
2025-03-19
2 contributors
In this article
This article helps guide you through getting started with Azure Monitor. It includes an overview of the basic steps you need for a complete Azure Monitor implementation, and recommendations for preparing your environment and configuring Azure Monitor.
Azure Monitor is immediately available when you create an Azure subscription. Some features start working right away, while others require some configuration. For example, theactivity logimmediately starts collecting events about activity in the subscription, platformmetricsare collected for any Azure resources you create, and metrics explorer is available to analyze data right out of the box.
Other features require configuration. For example, you need to creatediagnostic settingsto collect detailed data from your resources, and you need to configure alerts to be notified when something important happens.
Accessing Azure Monitor
In the Azure portal,Access all Azure Monitor features and data from theMonitormenu.Use theMonitoringsection in the menu of various Azure services to access the Azure Monitor tools with data filtered to a particular resource.
Access all Azure Monitor features and data from theMonitormenu.
Use theMonitoringsection in the menu of various Azure services to access the Azure Monitor tools with data filtered to a particular resource.
Use the Azure CLI, PowerShell, and the REST API to access Azure Monitor data for various scenarios.
Getting started workflow
These articles provide detailed information about each of the main steps you'll need to do when getting started with Azure Monitor.
Next steps
Planning your monitoring strategy and configuration.
Start with theMonitor Azure resources with Azure Monitor tutorial.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources