Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Service Fabric managed clusters
Article
2024-11-21
7 contributors
In this article
Service Fabric managed clusters are an evolution of the Azure Service Fabric cluster resource model that streamlines your deployment and cluster management experience.
The Azure Resource Model (ARM) template for traditional Service Fabric clusters requires you to define a cluster resource alongside a number of supporting resources. These resources must be configured correctly for the cluster and your services to function properly. In contrast, the encapsulation model for Service Fabric managed clusters consists of a single,Service Fabric managed clusterresource. All of the underlying resources for the cluster are abstracted away and managed by Azure on your behalf.
Service Fabric traditional cluster model
Service Fabric managed cluster model
In terms of size and complexity, the ARM template for a Service Fabric managed cluster is about 100 lines of JSON, versus some 1,000 lines required to define a typical Service Fabric cluster:
Service Fabric managed cluster advantages
Service Fabric managed clusters provide a number of advantages over traditional clusters including:
Simplified cluster deployment and management
Deploy and manage a single Azure resource
Cluster certificate management and 90 day autorotation
Simplified scaling operations
Automatic OS Image upgrade support
In-Place OS SKU change support
Prevent operational errors
Prevent configuration mismatches with underlying resources
Block unsafe operations (such as deleting a seed node)
Best practices by default
Simplified reliability and durability settings
There's no extra cost for Service Fabric managed clusters beyond the cost of underlying resources required for the cluster, and the same Service Fabric Service Level Agreement (SLA) applies for managed clusters.
Note
There is no migration path from existing Service Fabric clusters to managed clusters. You will need to create a new Service Fabric managed cluster to use this new resource type.
Important
Manually making changes to the resources in a managed cluster isn't supported.
Service Fabric managed cluster SKUs
Service Fabric managed clusters are available in both Basic and Standard SKUs.
Feature support
Seemanaged cluster configuration options documentationor managedClustersBicep & ARM templatesfor more information.
Next steps
To get started with Service Fabric managed clusters, try the quickstart:
Create a Service Fabric managed cluster
And referencehow to configure your managed cluster
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources