Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor Agent (AMA) in Defender for Cloud
Article
2025-02-19
10 contributors
In this article
Microsoft Defender for Cloud uses the Azure Monitor Agent (AMA) to:
Protect databases in the Defender for SQL Server on Machines plan.
Take advantage of thefree data ingestionbenefit provided in Defender for Servers Plan 2.
AMA in Defender for SQL Server on Machines
Defender for SQL Server on Machine uses the AMA to collect machine information for posture assessment, in order to detect misconfigurations and proactively prevent attacks.
The AMA replaces the Log Analytics agent (also known as the Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA)) that was previously used by the plan.
The MMA is deprecated. If you're using the MMA,follow the migration stepsto automatically provision the AMA for Defender for SQL Server on Machines.
Autoprovisioning for the AMA is turned on by default when you enable the database plan. You can turn automatic provisioning off and on as needed.
The AMA is implemented as a virtual machine extension, but you can deploy it using other options.Learn morein Azure Monitor.
Log Analytics workspace
The AMA requires a Log Analytics workspace solution. These solutions are automatically installed when you turn on the Defender for SQL Server on Machines plan with automatic AMA provisioning.Learn more
TheLog Analytics workspace solutionsfor the data that you're collecting are:
Cloud security posture management (CSPM) –SecurityCenterFree solution
Defender for Servers Plan 2 –Security solution
Customizing the workspace
When you install the AMA with autoprovisioning, you can define the destination workspace of the installed extensions.
By default, the destination is the “default workspace” that Defender for Cloud creates for each region in the subscription:defaultWorkspace-<subscriptionId>-<regionShortName>. Defender for Cloud automatically configures the data collection rules, workspace solution, and other extensions for that workspace.
defaultWorkspace-<subscriptionId>-<regionShortName>
If you configure a custom Log Analytics workspace:
Defender for Cloud only configures the data collection rules and other extensions for the custom workspace. You have to configure the workspace solution on the custom workspace.
Machines with the MMA that reports to a Log Analytics workspace with the security solution are billed even when the Defender for Servers plan isn't enabled. Machines with the AMA are billed only when the plan is enabled on the subscription.
Next steps
Enable Defender for SQL Servers on Machines
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources