Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure HDInsight release notes
Article
2025-01-24
36 contributors
In this article
This article provides information about themost recentAzure HDInsight release updates. For information on earlier releases, seeHDInsight Release Notes Archive.
Summary
Azure HDInsight is one of the most popular services among enterprise customers for open-source analytics on Azure.
Subscribe to theHDInsight Release Notesfor up-to-date information on HDInsight and all HDInsight versions.
To subscribe, click thewatchbutton in the banner and watch out forHDInsight Releases.
Release Information
Release date: Jan 23, 2025
Azure HDInsight periodically releases maintenance updates for delivering bug fixes, performance enhancements, and security patches ensuring you stay up to date with these updates guarantees optimal performance and reliability.
This release note applies to
HDInsight 5.1 version.
HDInsight 5.0 version.
HDInsight 4.0 version.
HDInsight release will be available to all regions over several days. This release note is applicable for image number2501080039.How to check the image number?
HDInsight uses safe deployment practices, which involve gradual region deployment. It might take up to 10 business days for a new release or a new version to be available in all regions.
OS versions
HDInsight 5.1: Ubuntu 18.04.5 LTS Linux Kernel 5.4
HDInsight 5.0: Ubuntu 18.04.5 LTS Linux Kernel 5.4
HDInsight 4.0: Ubuntu 18.04.5 LTS Linux Kernel 5.4
Note
Ubuntu 18.04 is supported underExtended Security Maintenance(ESM)by the Azure Linux team forAzure HDInsight July 2023, release onwards.
For workload specific versions, seeHDInsight 5.x component versions.
New feature
MSI Based authentication for SQL Databases.HDInsight now offers Managed Identity for secure authentication with SQL databases in its clusters offerings. This enhancement provides a more secure mechanism for authentication. For more information see,Use Managed Identity for SQL Database authentication in Azure HDInsight.To use Managed Identity with SQL databases, follow these steps:This feature isn't enabled by default. To enable it, submit asupport ticketwith your subscription and region details.After the capability has been enabled, proceed to recreate the cluster.NoteManaged Identity is currently available only in public regions. It will be rolled out to other regions (Federal and China regions) in future releases.
MSI Based authentication for SQL Databases.
HDInsight now offers Managed Identity for secure authentication with SQL databases in its clusters offerings. This enhancement provides a more secure mechanism for authentication. For more information see,Use Managed Identity for SQL Database authentication in Azure HDInsight.
To use Managed Identity with SQL databases, follow these steps:
This feature isn't enabled by default. To enable it, submit asupport ticketwith your subscription and region details.
This feature isn't enabled by default. To enable it, submit asupport ticketwith your subscription and region details.
After the capability has been enabled, proceed to recreate the cluster.
After the capability has been enabled, proceed to recreate the cluster.
Note
Managed Identity is currently available only in public regions. It will be rolled out to other regions (Federal and China regions) in future releases.
New Regions
New Zealand North.
Reminder
HDInsight service transitioned to use standard load balancers for all its cluster configurations due todeprecation announcementof Azure basic load balancer.NoteThis change is available in all regions. Recreate your cluster to consume this change. For any assistance, contactsupport.ImportantWhen using your own Virtual Network (custom VNet) during cluster creation, be advised that the cluster creation won't succeed once this change is enabled. We recommend referring to themigration guide to recreate the cluster.
For any assistance, contactsupport.
HDInsight service transitioned to use standard load balancers for all its cluster configurations due todeprecation announcementof Azure basic load balancer.
Note
This change is available in all regions. Recreate your cluster to consume this change. For any assistance, contactsupport.
Important
When using your own Virtual Network (custom VNet) during cluster creation, be advised that the cluster creation won't succeed once this change is enabled. We recommend referring to themigration guide to recreate the cluster.
For any assistance, contactsupport.
Basic and Standard A-series VMs Retirement.On August 31, 2024, we'll retire Basic and Standard A-series VMs. Before that date, you need to migrate your workloads to Av2-series VMs, which provide more memory per vCPU and faster storage on solid-state drives (SSDs).To avoid service disruptions,migrate your workloadsfrom Basic and Standard A-series VMs to Av2-series VMs before August 31, 2024.
Basic and Standard A-series VMs Retirement.
On August 31, 2024, we'll retire Basic and Standard A-series VMs. Before that date, you need to migrate your workloads to Av2-series VMs, which provide more memory per vCPU and faster storage on solid-state drives (SSDs).
To avoid service disruptions,migrate your workloadsfrom Basic and Standard A-series VMs to Av2-series VMs before August 31, 2024.
Coming soon
Retirement Notifications forHDInsight 4.0andHDInsight 5.0.
If you have any more questions, contactAzure Support.
You can always ask us about HDInsight onAzure HDInsight - Microsoft Q&A.
We're listening: You’re welcome to add more ideas and other topics here and vote for them -HDInsight Ideasand follow us for more updates onAzureHDInsight Community.
Note
We advise customers to use to latest versions of HDInsightImagesas they bring in the best of open source updates,  Azure updates, and security fixes. For more information, see,Best practices.
Next steps
Azure HDInsight: Frequently asked questions
Configure the OS patching schedule for Linux-based HDInsight clusters
Previousrelease note
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources