Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Specify events that trigger pipelines
Article
2024-11-15
23 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
Use triggers to run a pipeline automatically. Azure Pipelines supports many types of triggers. Based on your pipeline's type, select the appropriate trigger from the lists below.
Note
All trigger paths are case-sensitive.

Classic build pipelines and YAML pipelines
Continuous integration (CI) triggers vary based on the type of repository you build in your pipeline.
CI triggers in Azure Repos Git
CI triggers in GitHub
CI triggers in Bitbucket Cloud
CI triggers in TFVC
CI trigger YAML schema reference
Pull request validation (PR) triggers also vary based on the type of repository.
PR triggers in Azure Repos Git
PR triggers in GitHub
PR triggers in Bitbucket Cloud
PR trigger YAML schema reference
Gated check-inis supported for TFVC repositories.
Comment triggersare supported only for GitHub repositories.
Scheduled triggersare independent of the repository and allow you to run a pipeline according to a schedule.
Pipeline triggersin YAML pipelines andbuild completion triggersin classic build pipelines allow you to trigger one pipeline upon the completion of another.

Branch consideration for triggers in YAML pipelines
YAML pipelines can have different versions of the pipeline in different branches, which can affect which version of the pipeline's triggers are evaluated and which version of the pipeline should run.
trigger
pr
Classic release pipelines
Continuous deployment triggershelp you start classic releases after a classic build or YAML pipeline completes.
Scheduled release triggersallow you to run a release pipeline according to a schedule.
Pull request release triggersare used to deploy a pull request directly using classic releases.
Stage triggers in classic releaseare used to configure how each stage in a classic release is triggered.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources