Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Version compatibility with Fluid Framework releases
Article
2024-01-03
6 contributors
In this article
To connect your application to Azure Fluid Relay service,
you'll use the@fluidframework/azure-clientlibrary. You'll also use thefluid-frameworklibrary to use the core
data structures and provided by the Fluid Framework.
Since you are using Azure Fluid Relay, you should first install the latest available version of@fluidframework/azure-clientand use that version to determine what version of the fluid-framework library to use. The library expresses apeer dependencyon the version of the fluid-framework package on
which it depends.
You can use theinstall-peerdepstool to install both@fluidframework/azure-clientand the compatible version of fluid-framework using the following command:
npx install-peerdeps @fluidframework/azure-client
npx install-peerdeps @fluidframework/azure-client
Caution
Now that Azure Fluid Relay is generally available, we no longer support any pre-release version of@fluidframework/azure-clientandfluid-framework.
You must upgrade to the latest 1.0 version per the table below. With this upgrade, you’ll make use of our new multi-region routing capability where
Azure Fluid Relay will host your session closer to your end users to improve customer experience. In the latest package, you will need to update your
serviceConfig object to the new Azure Fluid Relay service endpoint instead of the storage and orderer endpoints. You can find the service endpoint in
the "Access Key" section of the Fluid Relay resource in the Azure portal. The orderer and storage endpoints used in earlier versions are deprecated now.
Compatibility table
Note
Fluid packages follow npm semver versioning standards. Patch updates are only applied to the latest minor version. To stay current ensure you are on
the latest published minor/patch version. To learn more about semver, seeSemantic Versioning.
Next steps
Provision an Azure Fluid Relay service
Connect to an Azure Fluid Relay service
Use AzureClient for local testing
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources