Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is autoinstrumentation for Azure Monitor Application Insights?
Article
2025-04-08
22 contributors
In this article
Autoinstrumentation enablesApplication Insightsto maketelemetrylike metrics, requests, and dependencies available in yourApplication Insights resource. It provides easy access to experiences such as theapplication dashboardandapplication map.
The term "autoinstrumentation" is a portmanteau, a linguistic blend where parts of multiple words combine into a new word. "Autoinstrumentation" combines "auto" and "instrumentation." It sees widespread use in software observability and describes the process of adding instrumentation code to applications without manual coding by developers.
The autoinstrumentation process varies by language and platform, but often involves a toggle button in the Azure portal. The following example shows a toggle button forAzure App Serviceautoinstrumentation.

Tip
We do not provide autoinstrumentation specifics for all languages and platforms in this article.For detailed information, select the corresponding link in theSupported environments, languages, and resource providers table. In many cases, autoinstrumentation is enabled by default.
What are the autoinstrumentation advantages?
Code changes aren't required.
Access to source code isn't required.
Configuration changes aren't required.
Instrumentation maintenance is eliminated.
Supported environments, languages, and resource providers
The following table shows the current state of autoinstrumentation availability.
Links are provided to more information for each supported scenario.
Note
If your hosting environment or resource provider is not listed in the following table, then autoinstrumentation is not supported. In this case, we recommend manually instrumenting using theAzure Monitor OpenTelemetry Distro. For more information, seeData Collection Basics of Azure Monitor Application Insights.
Footnotes
¹: Application Insights is on by default and enabled automatically.
²: This feature is in public preview. SeeSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews.
³: An agent must be deployed and configured.
⁴: Autoinstrumentation only supports single-container applications. For multi-container applications, manual instrumentation is required using theAzure Monitor OpenTelemetry Distro.
Note
Autoinstrumentation was known as "codeless attach" before October 2021.
Frequently asked questions
We follow theMicrosoft Style Guidefor product documentation published to theMicrosoft Learnplatform.
In general, we don't include a hyphen after the "auto" prefix.
Next steps
Application Insights overview
Application Insights overview dashboard
Application map
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources