Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Immutable vault for Azure Backup
Article
2024-12-09
7 contributors
In this article
Immutable vault can help you protect your backup data by blocking any operations that could lead to loss of recovery points. Further, you can lock the Immutable vault setting to make it irreversible and use WORM (Write Once, Read Many) storage for backups to prevent any malicious actors from disabling immutability and deleting backups.
Supported scenarios for WORM storage
Use of WORM storage for immutable vaults in locked state is currently in GA for Recovery Services Vaults in the following regions: Australia Central 2, Switzerland West, South Africa West, Korea Central, Germany North, Korea South, Spain Central.
Use of WORM storage for immutable vaults in locked state is applicable for the following workloads: Azure Virtual machines, SQL in Azure VM, SAP HANA in Azure VM, Azure Backup Server, Azure Backup Agent, DPM.
Before you start
Immutable vault is available in all Azure public and US Government regions.
Immutable vault is supported for Recovery Services vaults and Backup vaults.
Enabling Immutable vault blocks you from performing specific operations on the vault and its protected items. See therestricted operations.
Enabling immutability for the vault is a reversible operation. However, you can choose to make it irreversible to prevent any malicious actors from disabling it (after disabling it, they can perform destructive operations). Learn aboutmaking Immutable vault irreversible.
Immutable vault applies to all the data in the vault. Therefore, all instances that are protected in the vault have immutability applied to them.
Immutability doesn't apply to operational backups, such as operational backup of blobs, files, and disks.
Note
Ensure that the resource provider is registered in your subscription forMicrosoft.RecoveryServices, otherwise Zone-redundant and vault property options like “Immutability settings” will not be accessible.
Microsoft.RecoveryServices
How does immutability work?
While Azure Backup stores data in isolation from production workloads, it allows performing management operations to help you manage your backups, including those operations that allow you to delete recovery points. However, in certain scenarios, you may want to make the backup data immutable by preventing any such operations that, if used by malicious actors, could lead to the loss of backups. The Immutable vault setting on your vault enables you to block such operations to ensure that your backup data is protected, even if any malicious actors try to delete them to affect the recoverability of data.
Making immutability irreversible
The immutability of a vault is a reversible setting that allows you to disable the immutability (which would allow deletion of backup data) if needed. However, we recommend you, after being satisfied with the impact of immutability, lock the vault to make the Immutable vault settings irreversible and enable WORM storage for backups, so that any bad actors can’t disable it. Therefore, the Immutable vault settings accept following three states.
Restricted operations
Immutable vault prevents you  from performing the following operations  on the vault that could lead to loss of data:
Choose a vault
Recovery Services vault
Backup vault
Next steps
Learnhow to manage operations of Azure Backup vault immutability.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources