Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Get started with phishing-resistant passwordless authentication deployment in Microsoft Entra ID
Article
2025-03-04
5 contributors
In this article
Passwords are the primary attack vector for modern adversaries, and a source of friction for users and administrators. As part of an overallZero Trust security strategy, Microsoft recommendsmoving to phishing-resistant passwordlessin your authentication solution. This guide helps you select, prepare, and deploy the right phishing-resistant passwordless credentials for your organization. Use this guide to plan and execute your phishing-resistant passwordless project.
Features like multifactor authentication (MFA) are a great way to secure your organization. But users often get frustrated with the extra security layer on top of their need to remember passwords. Phishing-resistant passwordless authentication methods are more convenient. For example, an analysis of Microsoft consumer accounts shows that sign-in with a password can take up to 9 seconds on average, but passkeys only take around 3 seconds in most cases. The speed and ease of passkey sign-in is even greater when compared with traditional password and MFA sign in. Passkey users don’t need to remember their password, or wait around for SMS messages.
Note
This data is based on analysis of Microsoft consumer account sign-ins.
Phishing-resistant passwordless methods also have extra security baked in. They automatically count as MFA by using something that the user has (a physical device or security key) and something the user knows or is, like a biometric or PIN. And unlike traditional MFA, phishing-resistant passwordless methods deflect phishing attacks against your users by using hardware-backed credentials that can’t be easily compromised.
Microsoft Entra ID offers the following phishing-resistant passwordless authentication options:
Passkeys (FIDO2)Windows Hello for BusinessPlatform credential for macOS (preview)Microsoft Authenticator app passkeysFIDO2 security keysOther passkeys and providers, such as iCloud Keychain -on roadmap
Windows Hello for Business
Platform credential for macOS (preview)
Microsoft Authenticator app passkeys
FIDO2 security keys
Other passkeys and providers, such as iCloud Keychain -on roadmap
Certificate-based authentication/smart cards
Prerequisites
Before you start your Microsoft Entra phishing-resistant passwordless deployment project, complete these prerequisites:
Review license requirements
Review the roles needed to perform privileged actions
Identify stakeholder teams that need to collaborate
License requirements
Registration and passwordless sign in with Microsoft Entra doesn't require a license, but we recommend at least a Microsoft Entra ID P1 license for the full set of capabilities associated with a passwordless deployment. For example, a Microsoft Entra ID P1 license helps you enforce passwordless sign in through Conditional Access, and track deployment with an authentication method activity report. Refer to the licensing requirements guidance for features referenced in this guide for specific licensing requirements.
Integrate apps with Microsoft Entra ID
Microsoft Entra ID is a cloud-based Identity and Access Management (IAM) service that integrates with many types of applications, including Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) apps, line-of-business (LOB) apps, on-premises apps, and more. You need to integrate your applications with Microsoft Entra ID to get the most benefit from your investment in passwordless and phishing-resistant authentication. As you integrate more apps with Microsoft Entra ID, you can protect more of your environment with Conditional Access policies that enforce the use of phishing-resistant authentication methods. To learn more about how to integrate apps with Microsoft Entra ID, seeFive steps to integrate your apps with Microsoft Entra ID.
When you develop your own applications, follow the developer guidance for supporting passwordless and phishing-resistant authentication. For more information, seeSupport passwordless authentication with FIDO2 keys in apps you develop.
Required roles
The following table lists least privileged role requirements for phishing-resistant passwordless deployment. We recommend that you enable phishing-resistant passwordless authentication for all privileged accounts.
Customer stakeholder teams
To ensure success, make sure that you engage with the right stakeholders, and that they understand their roles before you begin your planning and rollout. The following table lists commonly recommended stakeholder teams.
Next steps
Deploy a phishing-resistant passwordless authentication deployment in Microsoft Entra ID
Considerations for specific personas in a phishing-resistant passwordless authentication deployment in Microsoft Entra ID
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources