Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Architecture best practices for Azure Database for MySQL and cost optimization
Article
2023-11-14
5 contributors
In this article
Azure Database for MySQLis a relational database service in the Microsoft cloud based on theMySQL Community Edition. You can use eitherSingle ServerorFlexible Serverto host a MySQL database in Azure. It's a fully managed database as a service offering that can handle mission-critical workloads with predictable performance and dynamic scalability.
For more information about how Azure Database for MySQL supports cost optimization for your workload, referenceServer concepts, specifically,Stop/Start an Azure Database for MySQL.
The following sections include design considerations, a configuration checklist, and recommended configuration options specific to Azure Database for MySQL.
Design considerations
Azure Database for MySQL includes the following design considerations:
Take advantage of the scaling capabilities of Azure Database for MySQL to lower consumption cost whenever possible. To scale your database up and down, as needed, reference the following Microsoft Support article, which covers the automation process using runbooks:How to autoscale an Azure Database for MySQL/PostgreSQL instance with Azure run books and Python.
Plan your Recovery Point Objective (RPO) according to your operation level requirement. There's no extra charge for backup storage for up to100%of your total provisioned server storage. Extra consumption of backup storage will be charged inGB/month.
100%
GB/month
The cloud native design of the Single-Server service allows it to support99.99%of availability, eliminating the cost of passivehotstandby.
99.99%
Consider using Flexible Server SKU for non-production workloads. Flexible servers provide better cost optimization controls with ability to stop and start your server. They provide a burstable compute tier that is ideal for workloads that don't need continuous full compute capacity.
Checklist
Have you configured Azure Database for MySQL with cost optimization in mind?
Choose the appropriate server size for your workload.
Consider Reserved Capacity for Azure Database for MySQL Single Server.
Configuration recommendations
Explore the following table of recommendations to optimize your Azure Database for MySQL configuration for cost optimization:
Azure Database for PostgreSQL and cost optimization
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources