Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Project Flash - Advancing Azure Virtual Machine availability monitoring
Article
2024-08-22
1 contributor
In this article
Flash, as the project is internally known, derives its name from our steadfast commitment to building a robust, reliable, and rapid mechanism for customers to monitor virtual machine (VM) health. Our primary objective is to ensure customers can reliably access actionable and precise telemetry, promptly receive alerts on changes, and periodically monitor data at scale. We also place strong emphasis on developing a centralized and coherent experience that customers can conveniently use to meet their unique observability requirements. It's our mission to ensure you can:
Consume accurate and actionable dataon VM availability disruptions (for example, VM reboots and restarts, application freezes due to network driver updates, and 30-second host OS updates), along with precise failure details (for example, platform versus user-initiated, reboot versus freeze, planned versus unplanned).
Analyze and alert on trends in VM availabilityfor quick debugging and month-over-month reporting.
Periodically monitor data at scaleand build custom dashboards to stay updated on the latest availability states of all resources.
Receive automated root cause analyses (RCAs)detailing impacted VMs, downtime cause and duration, consequent fixes, and similar—all to enable targeted investigations and post-mortem analyses.
Receive instantaneous notificationson critical changes in VM availability to quickly trigger remediation actions and prevent end-user impact.
Dynamically tailor and automate platform recovery policies, based on ever-changing workload sensitivities and failover needs.
Flash solutions
The Flash initiative is dedicated to developing solutions over the years that cater to the diverse monitoring needs of our customers. To help you determine the most suitable Flash monitoring solution(s) for your specific requirements, refer to the following table:
Holistic VM availability monitoring
For a holistic approach to monitoring VM availability, including scenarios of routine maintenance, live migration, service healing, and VM degradation, we recommend you utilize bothscheduled events(SE) and Flash health events.
Scheduled events are designed to offer an early warning, giving up to 15-minute advance notice prior to maintenance activities. This lead time enables you to make informed decisions regarding upcoming downtime, allowing you to either avoid or prepare for it. You have the flexibility to either acknowledge these events or delay actions during this 15-minute period, depending on your readiness for the upcoming maintenance.
On the other hand, Flash Health events are focused on real-time tracking of ongoing and completed availability disruptions, including VM degradation. This feature empowers you to effectively monitor and manage downtime, supporting automated mitigation, investigations, and post-mortem analysis.
To get started on your observability journey, you can explore the suite of Azure products to which we emit high-quality VM availability data. These products includeresource health,activity logs,Azure resource graph,Azure monitor metricsandAzure Event Grid system topic.
Next steps
To learn more about the solutions offered, proceed to corresponding solution article:
Use Azure Resource Graph to monitor Azure Virtual Machine availability
Use Event Grid system topics to monitor Azure Virtual Machine availability
Use Azure Monitor to monitor Azure Virtual Machine availability
Use Azure Resource Health to monitor Azure Virtual Machine availability
For a general overview of how to monitor Azure Virtual Machines, seeMonitor Azure virtual machinesand theMonitoring Azure virtual machines reference.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources