Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Arc resource bridge network requirements
Article
2024-09-20
4 contributors
In this article
This article describes the networking requirements for deploying Azure Arc resource bridge in your enterprise.
General network requirements
The lowest network bandwidth validated for deployment of Arc resource bridge is 100 mbps. If your network bandwidth is slower, you may experience problems with deployment.
Arc resource bridge communicates outbound securely to Azure Arc over TCP port 443. If the appliance needs to connect through a firewall or proxy server to communicate over the internet, it communicates outbound using the HTTPS protocol.
Generally, connectivity requirements include these principles:
All connections are TCP unless otherwise specified.
All HTTP connections use HTTPS and SSL/TLS with officially signed and verifiable certificates.
All connections are outbound unless otherwise specified.
To use a proxy, verify that the agents and the machine performing the onboarding process meet the network requirements in this article.
Outbound connectivity requirements
The firewall and proxy URLs below must be allowlisted in order to enable communication from the management machine, Appliance VM, and Control Plane IP to the required Arc resource bridge URLs.
Firewall/Proxy URL allowlist
msk8s.api.cdp.microsoft.com
msk8s.sb.tlu.dl.delivery.mp.microsoft.com
mcr.microsoft.com
*.data.mcr.microsoft.com
time.windows.com
management.azure.com
graph.microsoft.com
login.microsoftonline.com
*.login.microsoft.com
login.windows.net
*.dp.prod.appliances.azure.com
*.blob.core.windows.net, ecpacr.azurecr.io
*.his.arc.azure.com
azurearcfork8s.azurecr.io
adhs.events.data.microsoft.com
v20.events.data.microsoft.com
linuxgeneva-microsoft.azurecr.io
kvamanagementoperator.azurecr.io
packages.microsoft.com
sts.windows.net
guestnotificationservice.azure.com
gcs.prod.monitoring.core.windows.net
*.prod.microsoftmetrics.com
*.prod.hot.ingest.monitor.core.windows.net
*.prod.warm.ingest.monitor.core.windows.net
*.arc.azure.net
*.blob.core.windows.net
*.web.core.windows.net
*.dp.kubernetesconfiguration.azure.com
pypi.org
*.pypi.org
pythonhosted.org
*.pythonhosted.org
Inbound connectivity requirements
Communication between the following ports must be allowed from the management machine, Appliance VM IPs, and Control Plane IPs. Ensure these ports are open and that traffic is not being routed through a proxy to facilitate the deployment and maintenance of Arc resource bridge.
appliance VM IPs
Management machine
appliance VM IPs
Management machine
control plane IP
Management machine
control plane IP
Management machine
private cloud control plane address
Management machine
Note
The URLs listed here are required for Arc resource bridge only. Other Arc products (such as Arc-enabled VMware vSphere) may have additional required URLs. For details, seeAzure Arc network requirements.
Designated IP ranges for Arc resource bridge
When deploying Arc resource bridge, specific IP ranges are reserved exclusively for the Kubernetes pods and services within the appliance VM. These internal IP ranges must not overlap with any configuration inputs for the resource bridge, such as IP address prefix, control plane IP, appliance VM IPs, DNS servers, proxy servers, or vSphere ESXi hosts. For details on the Arc resource bridge configuration, refer to thesystem requirements.
Note
These designated IP ranges are only used internally within the Arc resource bridge. They don't affect Azure resources or networks.
SSL proxy configuration
Important
Arc Resource Bridge supports only direct (explicit) proxies, including unauthenticated proxies, proxies with basic authentication, SSL terminating proxies, and SSL passthrough proxies.
If using a proxy, the Arc Resource Bridge must be configured to use the proxy in order to connect to Azure services.
To configure the Arc resource bridge with proxy, provide the proxy certificate file path during creation of the configuration files.
To configure the Arc resource bridge with proxy, provide the proxy certificate file path during creation of the configuration files.
The format of the certificate file isBase-64 encoded X.509 (.CER).
The format of the certificate file isBase-64 encoded X.509 (.CER).
Only pass the single proxy certificate. If a certificate bundle is passed, the deployment will fail.
Only pass the single proxy certificate. If a certificate bundle is passed, the deployment will fail.
The proxy server endpoint can't be a.localdomain.
The proxy server endpoint can't be a.localdomain.
.local
The proxy server has to be reachable from all IPs within the IP address prefix, including the control plane and appliance VM IPs.
The proxy server has to be reachable from all IPs within the IP address prefix, including the control plane and appliance VM IPs.
There are only two certificates that should be relevant when deploying the Arc resource bridge behind an SSL proxy:
SSL certificate for your SSL proxy (so that the management machine and appliance VM trust your proxy FQDN and can establish an SSL connection to it)
SSL certificate for your SSL proxy (so that the management machine and appliance VM trust your proxy FQDN and can establish an SSL connection to it)
SSL certificate of the Microsoft download servers. This certificate must be trusted by your proxy server itself, as the proxy is the one establishing the final connection and needs to trust the endpoint. Non-Windows machines may not trust this second certificate by default, so you may need to ensure that it's trusted.
SSL certificate of the Microsoft download servers. This certificate must be trusted by your proxy server itself, as the proxy is the one establishing the final connection and needs to trust the endpoint. Non-Windows machines may not trust this second certificate by default, so you may need to ensure that it's trusted.
In order to deploy Arc resource bridge, images need to be downloaded to the management machine and then uploaded to the on-premises private cloud gallery. If your proxy server throttles download speed, you may not be able to download the required images (~3.5 GB) within the allotted time (90 min).
Exclusion list for no proxy
If a proxy server is being used, the following table contains the list of addresses that should be excluded from proxy by configuring thenoProxysettings.
noProxy
noProxy
.contoso.com
prefix1.contoso.com
prefix2.contoso.com
The default value fornoProxyislocalhost,127.0.0.1,.svc,10.0.0.0/8,172.16.0.0/12,192.168.0.0/16. While these default values will work for many networks, you may need to add more subnet ranges and/or names to the exemption list. For example, you may want to exempt your enterprise namespace (.contoso.com) from being directed through the proxy. You can achieve that by specifying the values in thenoProxylist.
noProxy
localhost,127.0.0.1,.svc,10.0.0.0/8,172.16.0.0/12,192.168.0.0/16
noProxy
Important
When listing multiple addresses for thenoProxysettings, don't add a space after each comma to separate the addresses. The addresses must immediately follow the commas.
noProxy
Internal port listening
Be aware that the appliance VM is configured to listen on the following ports. These ports are used exclusively for internal processes and do not require external access:
8443 – Endpoint for Microsoft Entra Authentication Webhook
10257 – Endpoint for Arc resource bridge metrics
10250 – Endpoint for Arc resource bridge metrics
2382 – Endpoint for Arc resource bridge metrics
Next steps
Review theAzure Arc resource bridge overviewto understand more about requirements and technical details.
Learn aboutsecurity configuration and considerations for Azure Arc resource bridge.
Viewtroubleshooting tips for networking issues.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources