Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
NV sizes series
Article
2024-10-18
1 contributor
In this article
Important
NV and NV_Promo series Azure virtual machines (VMs) will be retired on September 6, 2023. For more information, see theNV and NV_Promo retirement information. For how to migrate your workloads to other VM sizes, see theNV and NV_Promo series migration guide.
This retirement announcement doesn't apply to NVv3 and NVv4 series VMs.
The NV-series virtual machines are powered byNVIDIA Tesla M60GPUs and NVIDIA GRID technology for desktop accelerated applications and virtual desktops where customers are able to visualize their data or simulations. Users are able to visualize their graphics intensive workflows on the NV instances to get superior graphics capability and additionally run single precision workloads such as encoding and rendering. NV-series VMs are also powered by Intel Xeon E5-2690 v3 (Haswell) CPUs.
Each GPU in NV instances comes with a GRID license. This license gives you the flexibility to use an NV instance as a virtual workstation for a single user, or 25 concurrent users can connect to the VM for a virtual application scenario.
Host specifications
Feature support
Premium Storage: Not SupportedPremium Storage caching: Not SupportedLive Migration: Not SupportedMemory Preserving Updates: Not SupportedGeneration 2 VMs: Not SupportedGeneration 1 VMs: SupportedAccelerated Networking: Not SupportedEphemeral OS Disk: Not SupportedNested Virtualization: Not Supported
Sizes in series
Basics
Local Storage
Remote Storage
Network
Accelerators
vCPUs (Qty.) and Memory for each size
Check vCPU quotas
Local (temp) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Temp disk speed often differs between RR (Random Read) and RW (Random Write) operations. RR operations are typically faster than RW operations. The RW speed is usually slower than the RR speed on series where only the RR speed value is listed.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Remote (uncached) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
2Special Storage refers to eitherUltra DiskorPremium SSD v2storage.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Network interface info for each size
Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Expected network bandwidth is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines.
To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Accelerator (GPUs, FPGAs, etc.) info for each size
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources