Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Run a failover from on-premises to Azure
Article
2022-11-07
18 contributors
In this article
This article describes how to fail over on-premises machines to Azure inAzure Site Recovery
Before you start
Learnabout the failover process in disaster recovery.
If you want to fail over multiple machines,learnhow to gather machines together in a recovery plan.
Before you do a full failover, run adisaster recovery drillto ensure that everything is working as expected.
Prepare to connect after failover
To make sure you can connect to the Azure VMs that are created after failover, here are a number of things you need to do on-premises before failover.
Prepare on-premises to connect after failover
If you want to connect to Azure VMs using RDP/SSH after failover, there are a number of things you need to do on-premises before failover.
Run a failover
This procedure describes how to run a failover for arecovery plan. If you want to run a failover for a single VM, follow the instructions for aVMware VM, aphysical server, or aHyper-V VM.
Run the recovery plan failover as follows:
In the Site Recovery vault, selectRecovery Plans>recoveryplan_name.
In the Site Recovery vault, selectRecovery Plans>recoveryplan_name.
ClickFailover.
ClickFailover.

InFailover>Failover direction, leave the default if you're replicating to Azure.
InFailover>Failover direction, leave the default if you're replicating to Azure.
InFailover, select aRecovery Pointto which to fail over.Latest: Use the latest point. This processes all the data that's been sent to Site Recovery service, and creates a recovery point for each machine. This option provides the lowest RPO (Recovery Point Objective) because the VM created after failover has all the data that's been replicated to Site Recovery when the failover was triggered.
Please note that when the source region goes down, there is no more log processing possible. So, you will have to failover to Latest Processed recovery point. See the next point to understand more.Latest processed: Use this option to fail over VMs to the latest recovery point already processed by Site Recovery. You can see the latest processed recovery point in the VMLatest Recovery Points. This option provides a low RTO as no time is spent to processing the unprocessed dataLatest app-consistent: Use this option to fail VMs over to the latest application consistent recovery point that's been processed by Site Recovery.Latest multi-VM processed:  With this option VMs that are part of a replication group failover to the latest common multi-VM consistent recovery point. Other virtual machines fail over to their latest processed recovery point. This option is only for recovery plans that have at least one VM with multi-VM consistency enabled.Latest multi-VM app-consistent: With this option VMs that are part of a replication group fail over to the latest common multi-VM application-consistent recovery point. Other virtual machines failover to their latest application-consistent recovery point. Only for recovery plans that have at least one VM with multi-VM consistency enabled.Custom: Not available for recovery plans. This option is only for failover of individual VMs.
InFailover, select aRecovery Pointto which to fail over.
Latest: Use the latest point. This processes all the data that's been sent to Site Recovery service, and creates a recovery point for each machine. This option provides the lowest RPO (Recovery Point Objective) because the VM created after failover has all the data that's been replicated to Site Recovery when the failover was triggered.
Please note that when the source region goes down, there is no more log processing possible. So, you will have to failover to Latest Processed recovery point. See the next point to understand more.
Latest processed: Use this option to fail over VMs to the latest recovery point already processed by Site Recovery. You can see the latest processed recovery point in the VMLatest Recovery Points. This option provides a low RTO as no time is spent to processing the unprocessed data
Latest app-consistent: Use this option to fail VMs over to the latest application consistent recovery point that's been processed by Site Recovery.
Latest multi-VM processed:  With this option VMs that are part of a replication group failover to the latest common multi-VM consistent recovery point. Other virtual machines fail over to their latest processed recovery point. This option is only for recovery plans that have at least one VM with multi-VM consistency enabled.
Latest multi-VM app-consistent: With this option VMs that are part of a replication group fail over to the latest common multi-VM application-consistent recovery point. Other virtual machines failover to their latest application-consistent recovery point. Only for recovery plans that have at least one VM with multi-VM consistency enabled.
Custom: Not available for recovery plans. This option is only for failover of individual VMs.
SelectShut-down machine before beginning failoverif you want Site Recovery shut down source VMs before starting the failover. Failover continues even if shutdown fails.NoteIf you fail over Hyper-V VMs, shutdown tries to synchronize and replicate the on-premises data that hasn't yet been sent to the service, before triggering the failover.
SelectShut-down machine before beginning failoverif you want Site Recovery shut down source VMs before starting the failover. Failover continues even if shutdown fails.
Note
If you fail over Hyper-V VMs, shutdown tries to synchronize and replicate the on-premises data that hasn't yet been sent to the service, before triggering the failover.
Follow failover progress on theJobspage. Even if errors occurs, the recovery plan runs until it is complete.
Follow failover progress on theJobspage. Even if errors occurs, the recovery plan runs until it is complete.
After the failover, sign into the VM to validate it.
After the failover, sign into the VM to validate it.
If you want to switch to different recovery point to use for the failover, useChange recovery point.
If you want to switch to different recovery point to use for the failover, useChange recovery point.
When you're ready, you can commit the failover.TheCommitaction deletes all the recovery points available with the service. TheChange recovery pointoption will no longer be available.
When you're ready, you can commit the failover.TheCommitaction deletes all the recovery points available with the service. TheChange recovery pointoption will no longer be available.
Run a planned failover (Hyper-V)
You can run a planned failover for Hyper-V VMs.
A planned failover is a zero data loss failover option.
When a planned failover is triggered, first the source virtual machines are shut-down, the latest data is synchronized and then a failover is triggered.
You run a planned failover using thePlanned failoveroption. It runs in a similar way to a regular failover.
Track failovers
There are a number of jobs associated with failover.

Prerequisites check: Ensures that all conditions required for failover are met.
Failover: Processes the data so that an Azure VM can be created from it. If you have chosenLatestrecovery point, a recovery point is created from the data that's been sent to the service.
Start: Creates an Azure VM using the data processed in the previous step.
Warning
Don't cancel a failover in progress: Before failover is started, replication s stopped for the VM. If you cancel an in-progress job, failover stops, but the VM will not start to replicate. Replication can't be started again.
Extra failover time
In some cases, VM failover requires intermediate step that usually takes around eight to 10 minutes to complete. These are the machines that are affected by this additional step/time:
VMware virtual machines running a Mobility service version older than 9.8.
Physical servers, and Hyper-V VMs protected as physical servers.
VMware Linux VMs.
VMware  VMs on which these drivers aren't present as boot drivers:storvscvmbusstorfltintelideatapi
storvsc
vmbus
storflt
intelide
atapi
VMware VMs that don't have DHCP enabled, irrespective of whether they're using DHCP or static IP addresses.
Automate actions during failover
You might want to automate actions during failover. To do this, you can use scripts or Azure automation runbooks in recovery plans.
Learnabout creating and customizing recovery plans, including adding scripts.
Learnabout adding Azure Automation runbooks to recovery plans.
Configure settings after failover
Retain drive letters after failover
Site Recovery handles retention of drive letters. If you're excluding disks during VM replication,review an exampleof how this works.
Prepare in Azure to connect after failover
If you want to connect to Azure VMs that are created after failover using RDP or SSH, follow the requirements summarized in the table.
Follow the steps describedhereto troubleshoot any connectivity issues post failover.
Set up IP addressing
Internal IP addresses: To set the internal IP address of an Azure VM after failover, you have a couple of options:Retain same IP address: You can use the same IP address on the Azure VM as the one allocated to the on-premises machine.Use different IP address: You can use a different IP address for the Azure VM.Learn moreabout setting up internal IP addresses.
Retain same IP address: You can use the same IP address on the Azure VM as the one allocated to the on-premises machine.
Use different IP address: You can use a different IP address for the Azure VM.
Learn moreabout setting up internal IP addresses.
External IP addresses: You can retain public IP addresses on failover. Azure VMs created as part of the failover process must be assigned an Azure public IP address available in the Azure region. You can assign a public IP address either manually or by automating the process with a recovery plan.Learn more.
Next steps
After you've failed over, you need to reprotect to start replicating the Azure VMs back to the on-premises site. After replication is up and running, you can fail back on-premises when you're ready.
Learn moreabout reprotection and failback.
Preparefor VMware reprotection and failback.
Fail backHyper-V VMs.
Learn aboutthe failover and failback process for physical servers.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources