Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure architecture icons
Article
2025-03-31
21 contributors
In this article
Helping our customers design solutions is core to the Azure Architecture Center's mission. Architecture diagrams like those included in our guidance can help communicate design decisions and the relationships between components of a given workload. On this page, you'll find an official collection of Azure architecture icons including Azure product icons to help you build a custom architecture diagram for your next solution.
To learn more about communicating design intent, seeArchitecture design diagramsin the Azure Well-Architected Framework.
General guidelines
Do's
Use the icon to illustrate how products can work together.
In diagrams, we recommend including the product name somewhere close to the icon.
Use the icons as they would appear within Azure.
Don'ts
Don't crop, flip, or rotate icons.
Don't distort or change icon shape in any way.
Don't use Microsoft product icons to represent your product or service.
Example architecture diagrams

Browse all Azure architecturesto view other examples.
Icon updates
Icon terms
Microsoft permits the use of these icons in architectural diagrams, training materials, or documentation. You may copy, distribute, and display the icons only for the permitted use unless granted explicit permission by Microsoft. Microsoft reserves all other rights.
Download SVG icons
Use in Microsoft Visio
The icons are not provided in Visio stencil format. The icons are provided as general purpose SVG files. You can drag and drop these icons into many diagraming and drawing tools, including Visio. There are no plans to provide these icons as Visio stencils.
More icon sets from Microsoft
Dynamics 365 icons
Microsoft 365 architecture icons and templates
Microsoft Entra ID architecture icons
Microsoft Power Platform icons
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources