Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How to use SSH keys with Windows on Azure
Article
2024-10-16
18 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets
This article is for Windows users who want tocreateand usesecure shell(SSH) keys toconnectto Linux virtual machines (VMs) in Azure. You can alsogenerate and store SSH keys in the Azure portalto use when creating VMs in the portal.
To use SSH keys from a Linux or macOS client, see thequick steps. For a more detailed overview of SSH, seeDetailed steps: Create and manage SSH keys for authentication to a Linux VM in Azure.
Overview of SSH and keys
SSHis an encrypted connection protocol that allows secure sign-ins over unsecured connections. SSH is the default connection protocol for Linux VMs hosted in Azure. Although SSH itself provides an encrypted connection, using passwords with SSH still leaves the VM vulnerable to brute-force attacks. We recommend connecting to a VM over SSH using a public-private key pair, also known asSSH keys.
The public-private key pair is like the lock on your front door. The lock is exposed to thepublic, anyone with the right key can open the door. The key isprivate, and only given to people you trust because it can be used to unlock the door.
Thepublic keyis placed on your Linux VM when you create the VM.
Thepublic keyis placed on your Linux VM when you create the VM.
Theprivate keyremains on your local system. Protect this private key. Don't share it.
Theprivate keyremains on your local system. Protect this private key. Don't share it.
When you connect to your Linux VM, the VM tests the SSH client to make sure it has the correct private key. If the client has the private key, it's granted access to the VM.
Depending on your organization's security policies, you can reuse a single key pair to access multiple Azure VMs and services. You don't need a separate pair of keys for each VM.
Your public key can be shared with anyone, but only you (or your local security infrastructure) should have access to your private key.
Supported SSH key formats
Azure currently supports following key types:
SSH protocol 2 (SSH-2) RSA (Rivest, Shamir, Adleman) with a minimum length of 2048 bits
ED25519 Keys with a fixed length of 256 bits
Other key formats such as Elliptic-curve Diffie–Hellman (ECDH) and Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) are currently not supported.
SSH clients
Recent versions of Windows 10 includeOpenSSH client commandsto create and use SSH keys and make SSH connections from PowerShell or a command prompt.
You can also use Bash in theAzure Cloud Shellto connect to your VM. You can use Cloud Shell in aweb browser, from theAzure portal, or as a terminal in Visual Studio Code using theAzure Account extension.
You can also install theWindows Subsystem for Linuxto connect to your VM over SSH and use other native Linux tools within a Bash shell.
Create an SSH key pair
The easiest way to create and manage your SSH keys is touse the portal to create and store themfor reuse.
You can also create key pairs with theAzure CLIwith theaz sshkey createcommand, as described inGenerate and store SSH keys.
To create an SSH key pair on your local computer using thessh-keygencommand from PowerShell or a command prompt, use the following command:
ssh-keygen
ssh-keygen -m PEM -t rsa -b 2048
ssh-keygen -m PEM -t rsa -b 2048
Enter a filename, or use the default shown in parenthesis (for exampleC:\Users\username/.ssh/id_rsa).  Enter a passphrase for the file, or leave the passphrase blank if you don't want to use a passphrase.
C:\Users\username/.ssh/id_rsa
Create a VM using your key
To create a Linux VM that uses SSH keys for authentication, provide your SSH public key when creating the VM.
Using the Azure CLI, you specify the path and filename for the public key usingaz vm createand the--ssh-key-valueparameter.
az vm create
--ssh-key-value
az vm create \
   --resource-group myResourceGroup \
   --name myVM \
   --image Ubuntu2204\
   --admin-username azureuser \
   --ssh-key-value ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
az vm create \
   --resource-group myResourceGroup \
   --name myVM \
   --image Ubuntu2204\
   --admin-username azureuser \
   --ssh-key-value ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
With PowerShell, useNew-AzVMand add the SSH key to the VM configuration using`. For an example, seeQuickstart: Create a Linux virtual machine in Azure with PowerShell.
New-AzVM
If you do many deployments using the portal, you might want to upload your public key to Azure, where it can be easily selected when creating a VM from the portal. For more information, seeUpload an SSH key.
Connect to your VM
With the public key deployed on your Azure VM, and the private key on your local system, SSH to your VM using the IP address or DNS name of your VM. Replaceazureuserand10.111.12.123in the following command with the administrator user name, the IP address (or fully qualified domain name), and the path to your private key:
ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa azureuser@10.111.12.123
ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa azureuser@10.111.12.123
If you've never connected to this VM before you'll be asked to verify the hosts fingerprint. It's tempting to accept the fingerprint presented, however, this exposes you to a possible person in the middle attack. You should always validate the hosts fingerprint. You only need to do this on the first time you connect from a client. To obtain the host fingerprint via the portal, use the Run Command with the following command:ssh-keygen -lf /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ecdsa_key.pub | awk '{print $2}'.
ssh-keygen -lf /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ecdsa_key.pub | awk '{print $2}'

To run the command using CLI, use theaz vm run-command invokecommand.
az vm run-command invoke
If you configured a passphrase when you created your key pair, enter the passphrase when prompted.
If the VM is using the just-in-time access policy, you need to request access before you can connect to the VM. For more information about the just-in-time policy, seeManage virtual machine access using the just in time policy.
Next steps
For information about SSH keys in the Azure portal to use when creating VMs, seeGenerate and store SSH keys in the Azure portal.
For information about SSH keys in the Azure portal to use when creating VMs, seeGenerate and store SSH keys in the Azure portal.
For information about SSH keys in the Azure CLI to use when creating VMs, seeGenerate and store SSH keys with the Azure CLI.
For information about SSH keys in the Azure CLI to use when creating VMs, seeGenerate and store SSH keys with the Azure CLI.
For detailed steps, options, and advanced examples of working with SSH keys, seeDetailed steps to create SSH key pairs.
For detailed steps, options, and advanced examples of working with SSH keys, seeDetailed steps to create SSH key pairs.
If you have difficulty using SSH to connect to your Linux VMs, seeTroubleshoot SSH connections to an Azure Linux VM.
If you have difficulty using SSH to connect to your Linux VMs, seeTroubleshoot SSH connections to an Azure Linux VM.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources