Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Reliability in Azure Backup
Article
2025-02-27
5 contributors
In this article
This article describes reliability support inAzure Backup, and coversavailability zonesandcross-region recovery and business continuity. For a more detailed overview of reliability in Azure, seeAzure reliability.
Azure Backup is a secure and reliable built-in data protection mechanism in Azure, providing data protection for various on-premises and cloud workloads. Azure Backup can seamlessly scale its protection across multiple workloads and provides native integration with Azure workloads (VMs, SAP HANA, SQL in Azure VMs, Azure Files, AKS etc.) without requiring you to manage automation or infrastructure to deploy agents, write new scripts, or provision storage.
Azure Backup supports the following data redundant storage options:
Locally redundant storage (LRS):To protect your data against server rack and drive failures, you can use LRS. LRS replicates your backup data three times within a single data center in the primary region. For more information on locally redundant storage, seeAzure Blob Storage - locally redundant storage.
Locally redundant storage (LRS):To protect your data against server rack and drive failures, you can use LRS. LRS replicates your backup data three times within a single data center in the primary region. For more information on locally redundant storage, seeAzure Blob Storage - locally redundant storage.
Geo-redundant storage (GRS):To protect against region-wide outages, you can use GRS. GRS replicates your backup data to a secondary region. For more information, seeAzure Blob Storage - geo-redundant storage.
Geo-redundant storage (GRS):To protect against region-wide outages, you can use GRS. GRS replicates your backup data to a secondary region. For more information, seeAzure Blob Storage - geo-redundant storage.
Zone-redundant storage (ZRS):To replicate your backup data in availability zones, you can use ZRS. ZRS guarantees data residency and resiliency in the same region.Azure Blob Storage - zone-redundant storage.
Zone-redundant storage (ZRS):To replicate your backup data in availability zones, you can use ZRS. ZRS guarantees data residency and resiliency in the same region.Azure Blob Storage - zone-redundant storage.
Note
The redundancy options are applicable to how backup data is stored and not on the Azure Backup Service itself.
Vault storage
Azure Backup stores backed-up data inRecovery Services vaultsandBackup vaults. A vault is an online-storage entity in Azure that's used to hold data, such as backup copies, recovery points, and backup policies.
The following table lists the various datasources that each vault supports:
Availability zone support
Availability zones are physically separate groups of datacenters within each Azure region. When one zone fails, services can fail over to one of the remaining zones.
For more information on availability zones in Azure, seeWhat are availability zones?
Azure Backup service
Azure Backup is a zone-redundant service for both Recovery Service and Backup vaults. When you create your vault resources, you don't need to configure for zone-redundancy. In the case of a zonal outage, the vaults remain operational.
Azure Backup data
To ensure that your backup data is available during a zonal outage, chooseZone-redundantforBackup storage redundancyoption during vault creation.
Migrate to availability zone support
To learn how to migrate a Recovery Services vault to availability zone support, seeMigrate Azure Recovery Services vault to availability zone support.
Cross-region disaster recovery and business continuity
Disaster recovery (DR) refers to practices that organizations use to recover from high-impact events, such as natural disasters or failed deployments that result in downtime and data loss. Regardless of the cause, the best remedy for a disaster is a well-defined and tested DR plan and an application design that actively supports DR. Before you start creating your disaster recovery plan, seeRecommendations for designing a disaster recovery strategy.
For DR, Microsoft uses theshared responsibility model. In this model, Microsoft ensures that the baseline infrastructure and platform services are available. However, many Azure services don't automatically replicate data or fall back from a failed region to cross-replicate to another enabled region. For those services, you're responsible for setting up a disaster recovery plan that works for your workload. Most services that run on Azure platform as a service (PaaS) offerings provide features and guidance to support DR. You can useservice-specific features to support fast recoveryto help develop your DR plan.
When an entire Azure region or datacenter experiences downtime, your vaults continue to be accessible and you'll still be able to see your backup items. However, unless you deploy for regional redundancy, the underlying backup data isn't accessible to you for performing a restore operation.
To achieve regional redundancy for your backup data, Azure Backup allows you to replicate your backups to an additionalAzure paired regionby usinggeo-redundant storage (GRS)to protect your backups from regional outages. When you enable the backups with GRS, the backups in the secondary region become accessible only when Microsoft declares an outage in the primary region. However, by using Cross Region Restore you can access and perform restores from the secondary region recovery points even when no outage occurs in the primary region. With Cross Region Store you can perform drills to assess regional resiliency.
Next steps
Reliability in Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources