Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
UAE DESC CSP Security Standard
Article
2023-04-05
1 contributor
In this article
UAE DESC CSP Security Standard overview
The United Arab Emirates (UAE)Dubai Electronic Security Center(DESC) was founded in 2014 with the aim to develop and implement information security practices across the Dubai Emirate. TheCloud Service Provider (CSP) Security Standardproduced by DESC sets out requirements and guidance for CSPs and organizations using any cloud services. Compliance with this standard is mandatory for all CSPs wishing to offer cloud services to Dubai government and semi-government entities.
The DESC CSP Security Standard is based on the following standards:
ISO/IEC 27001:2013
ISO/IEC 27002:2013
ISO/IEC 27017:2015
Dubai Government Information Security Regulation (ISR) 2017
Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Cloud Controls Matrix (CCM) 3.0.1
The CSP Security Standard contains mandatory requirements for CSPs offering their services to government and semi-government entities in Dubai. It also provides guidance for customers of these CSPs. Government and semi-government organizations in Dubai must ensure that any CSP they're using complies with this standard.
Throughout the development of the CSP Security Standard, DESC sought strong alignment with established international standards to streamline the certification process. Consequently, if a CSP is already certified against ISO/IEC 27001:2013, this part of the CSP Security Standard wouldn't be audited again; instead, the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certificate would be simply accepted. The same logic applies for other existing standards on which the CSP Security Standard is based. For example, if a CSP is already certified against CSA STAR Level 2, this certificate would be accepted without any further audit.
To facilitate this process, DESC has issued a set of requirements for certification bodies seeking DESC accreditation to perform certification work against the CSP Security Standard. A certification body approved by DESC can then check the validity of CSPs existing certifications and inform DESC about the status. In case certification is warranted, the certification body should inform DESC after completing all required activities. Extra audit work by a certification body may be needed, for example, physical on-site inspection of datacenter facilities or other examination as required by DESC.
Microsoft and DESC CSP Security Standard
Microsoft was the first global cloud services provider to obtain the DESC CSP Security Standard certification. Microsoft Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365 are already certified underISO/IEC 27001:2013andISO/IEC 27017:2015. Moreover, Azure maintains bothCSA STAR Level 2 CertificationandCSA STAR Level 2 Attestation.
To support Dubai government and semi-government entities that are concerned about data residency, Microsoft has established two UAE data centers in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. These data centers add in-countrydata residency, failover, anddisaster recoveryfor customer data and applications.
Microsoft retained an independent third-party auditing firm (certification body) accredited by DESC to perform the CSP Security Standard certification of Microsoft Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365, including the physical inspection of datacenter facilities in two Azure UAE regions. Following the completion of these activities, Microsoft was granted the CSP Security Standard certification.
Applicability
Azure
The DESC CSP Security Standard certificate applies to two Azure UAE regions: UAE Central (Abu Dhabi) and UAE North (Dubai).
Services in scope
Microsoft cloud services in audit scope are shown in the CSP Security Standard certificate:
Azure Core Services
Dynamics 365 Core Services
Office 365 Services
For a detailed list of Microsoft Core Online Services, see MicrosoftPrivacy & Security Terms.
Attestation documents
You can access Azure UAE DESC audit documents from the Service Trust Portal (STP)UAE regional resourcessection. For instructions on how to access audit reports, seeAudit documentation.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
Dubai Electronic Security Center(DESC)
DESCCloud Service Provider (CSP) Security Standard
DESCStandards & Policies
Additional resources