Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Ephemeral OS disks for Azure VMs
Article
2024-10-18
16 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets
Ephemeral OS disks are created on the local virtual machine (VM) storage and not saved to the remote Azure Storage. Ephemeral OS disks are ideal for stateless workloads, where applications can tolerate individual VM failures but are sensitive to VM deployment times or the reimaging of individual VM instances. With Ephemeral OS disk, you get lower read/write latency to the OS disk and faster VM reimage.
The key features of ephemeral disks are:
Designed for stateless applications.
Supported on all images - Marketplace, custom images, andAzure Compute Gallery(formerly known as Shared Image Gallery).
Provides fast reimage to reset virtual machines (VMs) and scale set instances to their original boot state.
Offers lower latency, similar to a temporary disk.
Ensures no storage cost for operating system disks, as ephemeral OS disks are free.
Supported in all Azure regions.
Key differences between persistent and ephemeral OS disks:
* 4 TiB is the maximum supported OS disk size for managed (persistent) disks. However, many OS disks are partitioned with master boot record (MBR) by default and are limited to 2 TiB. For details, seeOS disk.
Placement options for Ephemeral OS disks
Ephemeral OS Disk utilizes local storage within the VM. Since different VMs have different types of local storage (cache disk, resource disk, and NVMe disk), the placement option defines where the Ephemeral OS Disk is stored. Placement option however doesn't impact the performance or cost of Ephemeral OS disk. Its performance is dependent upon the VM's local storage. Depending upon the VM type, we offer three different types of placement:
NVMe Disk Placement (In Public Preview)- NVMe disk placement type is available on the latest generation VMs like Dadsv6, Ddsv6 etc.
Temp Disk Placement- Temp disk placement type is available on VMs with Temp disk like Dadsv5, Ddsv5 etc.
Cache Disk Placement- Cache disk placement type is available on older VMs that had cache disk like Dsv2, Dsv3 etc.
DiffDiskPlacementis the new property that can be used to specify where you want to place the Ephemeral OS disk. With this feature, when a Windows VM is provisioned, we configure the pagefile to be located on the OS Disk.
Size requirements
You can choose to deploy Ephemeral OS Disk on NVMe disk, temp disk, or cache on the VM.
The image OS disk’s size should be less than or equal to the NVMe/temp/cache size of the VM size chosen.
For example, if you want to opt forOS cache placement: Standard Windows Server images from the marketplace are about 127 GiB, which means that you need a VM size that has a cache equal to or larger than 127 GiB. The Standard_DS3_v2 has a cache size of 127 GiB, which is large enough. In this case, the Standard_DS3_v2 is the smallest size in the DSv2 series that you can use with this image.
For example, if you want to opt forTemp disk placement: Standard Ubuntu server image from marketplace is about 30 GiB. To enable Ephemeral OS disk on temp, the temp disk size must be equal to or larger than 30 GiB. Standard_B4ms has a temp size of 32 GiB, which can fit the 30-GiB OS disk. Upon creation of the VM, the temp disk space would be 2 GiB.
For example, if you want to opt forNVMe disk placement (In Public Preview): Standard Ubuntu server image from marketplace is about 30 GiB. To enable Ephemeral OS disk on NVMe, the NVMe disk size must be equal to or larger than 30 GiB. Standard_D2ads_v6 has a temp size of 110 GiB, which can easily fit the 30-GiB OS disk. However, Ephemeral OS disk occupies the entire NVMe disk and there's no NVMe disk space given back. One way to maximize the use of NVMe disk is by maximizing the OS disk Size property to 110 GiB.
Important
If opting for temp disk placement the Final Temp disk size = (Initial temp disk size - OS image size).
If opting for NVMe disk placement (In Public Preview), Final NVMe Disk size = (Total no. of NVMe disks - NVMe Disks used for OS) * Size of each NVMe disk. where NVMe Disks used for OS is the minimum number of disks required for OS disk depending on the size of OS disk and the size of each NVMe disk.
If Ephemeral OS disk is usingTemp Disk Placement, it shares the IOPS(input/output operations per second) with temp disk as per the VM size chosen by you. If Ephemeral OS disk is usingNVMe Disk Placement, it provides the IOPS(input/output operations per second) of One NVMe disk as per the VM size chosen by you.
Basic Linux and Windows Server images in the Marketplace that are denoted with[smallsize]tend to be around 30 GiB and can use most of the available VM sizes.
Ephemeral disks also require that the VM size supportsPremium storage. The sizes usually (but not always) have ansin the name, like DSv2 and EsV3. For more information, seeAzure VM sizesfor details around which sizes support Premium storage.
[smallsize]
s
Note
Ephemeral disk will not be accessible through the portal. You will receive a "Resource not Found" or "404" error when accessing the ephemeral disk which is expected.
Unsupported features
VM Image Capture
Disk snapshots
Azure Disk Encryption
Azure Backup
Azure Site Recovery
OS Disk Swaps
Trusted Launch for Ephemeral OS disks
Ephemeral OS disks can be created with Trusted launch. All regions are supported for Trusted Launch; not all virtual machines sizes are supported. CheckVirtual machines sizes supportedfor supported sizes.
VM guest state (VMGS) is specific to trusted launch VMs. It's an Azure-managed blob and contains the unified extensible firmware interface (UEFI) secure boot signature databases and other security information. VMs using trusted launch by default reserve1 GiBfrom theOS cacheortemp storagebased on the chosen placement option for VMGS. The lifecycle of the VMGS blob is tied to that of the OS Disk.
For example, If you try to create a Trusted launch Ephemeral OS disk VM using OS image of size 56 GiB with VM sizeStandard_DS4_v2using temp disk placement you would get an error as"OS disk of Ephemeral VM with size greater than 55 GB is not allowed for VM size Standard_DS4_v2 when the DiffDiskPlacement is ResourceDisk."This error occurs because the temp storage forStandard_DS4_v2is 56 GiB, and 1 GiB is reserved for VMGS when using trusted launch.
For the same example, if you create a standard Ephemeral OS disk VM you wouldn't get any errors and it would be a successful operation.
Important
While using ephemeral disks for Trusted Launch VMs, keys and secrets generated or sealed by the vTPM after VM creation may not be persisted for operations like reimaging and platform events like service healing.
For more information onhow to deploy a trusted launch VM
Confidential VMs using Ephemeral OS disks
AMD-based Confidential VMs cater to high security and confidentiality requirements of customers. These VMs provide a strong, hardware-enforced boundary to help meet your security needs. There are limitations to use Confidential VMs. Check theregion,size, andOS supportedlimitations for confidential VMs.
Virtual machine guest state (VMGS) blob contains the security information of the confidential VM.
Confidential VMs using Ephemeral OS disks by default1 GiBfrom theOS cacheortemp storagebased on the chosen placement option is reserved for VMGS. The lifecycle of the VMGS blob is tied to that of the OS Disk.NVMe Disk placementis currently not supported for Confidential VMs.
Important
When choosing a confidential VM with full OS disk encryption before VM deployment that uses a customer-managed key (CMK).Updating a CMK key versionorkey rotationis not supported with Ephemeral OS disk. Confidential VMs using Ephemeral OS disks need to be deleted before updating or rotating the keys and can be re-created subsequently.
For more information onconfidential VM
Customer Managed key
You can choose to use customer managed keys or platform managed keys when you enable end-to-end encryption for VMs using Ephemeral OS disk. Currently this option is available only viaPowerShell,CLI, and SDK in all regions.
Important
Updating a CMK key versionorkey rotationof customer managed key is not supported with Ephemeral OS disk. VMs using Ephemeral OS disks need to be deleted before updating or rotating the keys and can be re-created subsequently.
For more information onEncryption at host
Next steps
Create a VM with ephemeral OS disk usingAzure Portal/CLI/PowerShell/ARM template.
Check out thefrequently asked questions on ephemeral os disk.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources