Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Workload profiles in Azure Container Apps
Article
2025-03-11
9 contributors
In this article
A workload profile determines the amount of compute and memory resources available to the container apps deployed in an environment.
Profiles are configured to fit the different needs of your applications.
Note
When using GPU-enabled workload profiles, make sure your application is running the latest version ofCUDA.
The Consumption workload profile is the default profile added to every Workload profilesenvironmenttype. You can add Consumption GPU workload profiles for each type of GPU. All Consuption workload profiles:
Automatically scale as needed
Can deploy multiple apps
You can add Dedicated workload profiles to your environment. These enable you to:
Use reserved VMs for your apps
Select the type and size of the VM
Deploy multiple apps in each profile
Use autoscaling to add and remove VM instances based on the needs of the apps
Limit scaling of the profile to better control costs
You can configure each of your apps to run on any of the workload profiles defined in your Container Apps environment. This configuration is ideal for deploying microservices where each app can run on the appropriate compute infrastructure.
Note
You can only add a Dedicated GPU workload profile when initially creating an environment. Consumption GPU and other types of workload profiles may be added later.
Profile types
There are different types and sizes of workload profiles available by region. By default, each workload profile enabled environment includes a Consumption profile, but you can also add any of the following profiles:
*Capacity is allocated on a per-case basis. Submit asupport ticketto request the capacity amount required for your application.
Note
The commandaz containerapp env workload-profile setis no longer available for selecting a workload profile. Instead, useaz containerapp env workload-profile addoraz containerapp env workload-profile update.
az containerapp env workload-profile set
In addition to different core and memory sizes, workload profiles also have varying image size limits available. To learn more about the image size limits for your container apps, seehardware reference.
The availability of different workload profiles varies by region.
Resource consumption
You can constrain the memory and CPU usage of each app inside a workload profile, and you can run multiple apps inside a single instance of a workload profile. However, the total resources available to a container app are less than the resources allocated to a profile. The difference between allocated and available resources is the amount reserved by the Container Apps runtime.
Scaling
When demand for new apps or more replicas of an existing app exceeds the profile's current resources, profile instances might be added.
At the same time, if the number of required replicas goes down, profile instances might be removed. You have control over the constraints on the minimum and maximum number of profile instances.
Azure calculatesbillinglargely based on the number of running profile instances.
Networking
When you use the workload profile environment, extra networking features that fully secure your ingress and egress networking traffic (such as user defined routes) are available. To learn more about what networking features are supported, seeNetworking in Azure Container Apps environment. For steps on how to secure your network with Container Apps, see thelock down your Container App environment section.
Next steps
Manage workload profiles with the CLI
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources