Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Manage and monitor Oracle workloads on Azure Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator
Article
2025-02-17
6 contributors
In this article
This article describes how to successfully manage and monitor Oracle on Azure Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator. This enterprise-scale scenario outlines important recommendations for the design of your environment. For more information, seeManagement for Azure environments.
This article describes key design considerations and best practices for how to manage your Oracle workload deployments on Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator. Because Oracle is a mission-critical and high-performance workload, you should include the guidance on the Azure landing zone design areas in your planning. To ensure the health of your mission-critical workloads, it's crucial to monitor Oracle workloads on Virtual Machines for failures and abnormalities.
Monitor Oracle databases on Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator
The first step of monitoring is to set up general Azure virtual machine (VM) monitoring and define thresholds for key metrics. After you configure general VM and managed disk monitoring, the next step is to set up Oracle monitoring that's tailored to your environment.
Log monitoring by Azure Monitor
To monitor an Oracle workload onVirtual Machines landing zone accelerator, you need to monitor VMs, attached managed disks, or applied storage accounts, such as Azure NetApp Files and Oracle Database on Virtual Machines. Azure Monitor provides several ways to monitor VM logs and managed disks for your Oracle workload.
The first step is to set up general VM and managed disk monitoring.
EnableVM insights.
EnableVM insights.
Deploy Azure Monitor Agent and configuredata collection rules.
Deploy Azure Monitor Agent and configuredata collection rules.
Collectcustom logs.
Collectcustom logs.
Monitor managed disk metrics.If you store Oracle database files in Azure managed disks, monitor the performance-related metrics for managed disks. Suitable managed disk SKUs for Oracle databases are Premium SSD, Premium SSD v2, and Ultra disk.Data disk performance metrics are important because the Oracle database files are stored on the managed disks. Consider the cumulative input/output operations per second (IOPS) and throughput of data disks when you use disk striping technologies, such as Oracle Automatic Storage Management or Linux Logical Volume Manager.NoteYou can choose Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe)-based storage when required by your workload. NVMe is a high-performance storage protocol designed for flash storage, which provides low latency and high throughput. For most workloads that use an Oracle Database that's hosted on a compute node with NVMe storage, we recommend a block size of 128K.The block size refers to the amount of data that's read or written in a single input/output (I/O) operation. It plays a crucial role in how to determine storage performance, throughput, and latency. Keep in mind that the maximum throughput you can configure depends on the data size and disk type that you provision.
Monitor managed disk metrics.
If you store Oracle database files in Azure managed disks, monitor the performance-related metrics for managed disks. Suitable managed disk SKUs for Oracle databases are Premium SSD, Premium SSD v2, and Ultra disk.
Data disk performance metrics are important because the Oracle database files are stored on the managed disks. Consider the cumulative input/output operations per second (IOPS) and throughput of data disks when you use disk striping technologies, such as Oracle Automatic Storage Management or Linux Logical Volume Manager.
Note
You can choose Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe)-based storage when required by your workload. NVMe is a high-performance storage protocol designed for flash storage, which provides low latency and high throughput. For most workloads that use an Oracle Database that's hosted on a compute node with NVMe storage, we recommend a block size of 128K.
The block size refers to the amount of data that's read or written in a single input/output (I/O) operation. It plays a crucial role in how to determine storage performance, throughput, and latency. Keep in mind that the maximum throughput you can configure depends on the data size and disk type that you provision.
Azure VM and managed disk metrics
The following table lists the performance metrics that the Oracle administrator should monitor.
Note
In theSeveritycategory,0has the highest severity and2has the lowest severity.
When you monitor disk metrics, it's important to ensure that you don't exceed the database VM limits. The specific limits for managed disks are detailed in the technical specifications for each VM SKU. For more information, seeSizes for VMs in Azure. When you select the appropriate VM SKU, refer to the table and columnMax uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MB/sto see how multiple managed disks attached to the VM can cumulatively provide higher combined IOPS and throughput. If the database I/O requirements during peak load exceed the maximum uncached disk throughput of the VM, the VM's I/O operations might be throttled. If there's insufficient IOPS or storage throughput per disk, throttling might occur at both the VM and disk levels.
For more information, seeDisk metrics.
Monitor Azure NetApp Files metrics
If the database files are stored in Azure NetApp Files volumes, monitor Azure NetApp Files allocated storage, storage usage, volume IOPS, throughput, and latency. For more information about how to monitor Azure NetApp Files and related performance metrics, seeWays to monitor Azure NetApp FilesandMetrics for Azure NetApp Files.
When you monitor Azure NetApp Files metrics, it's also important to monitor the VM's network bandwidth to ensure that its limit isn't exceeded. Because Azure NetApp Files volumes are mounted over the network by using the Network File System (NFS) protocol, they aren't restricted by the cumulative I/O throughput limits of any VM instance type. Instead, Azure NetApp Files is only limited by the network bandwidth of the database VM series. The specific limit for NFS-mounted storage is detailed in the column namedMax network bandwidth (MB/s). For more information about the technical specifications of the VM series, seeEdv5 and Edsv5-series.
Configure the alerts for Azure VM metrics
Alerts in Azure Monitor can help you identify unhealthy resources. When you create a new VM, you can enable a set of recommended alert rules for common metrics. This initial set includes metrics such as CPU percentage and available memory. For more information, seeEnable recommended alert rules for VMs. You can also configureadvanced metric alert rulesif you require situational monitoring.
Consider usingAzure Monitor Baseline Alerts, which serves as a best practice collection of alerts for resources commonly deployed in Azure landing zones.
You should monitor managed disk-related metrics. If thresholds are exceeded, you should issue an alert.
Monitor related Azure services
The following table lists other typical solution components that should be monitored in some capacity.
status – AzBackup – script – version: message
INFO - AzBackup pre-script v1.02: BEGIN BACKUP
$ORACLE_BASE/diag/rdbms/$ORA_DBNAME/$ORACLE_SID/trace
/var/log/messages
Oracle workload monitoring by Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control
Oracle Enterprise Manager is an Oracle integrated enterprise management product. It provides monitoring of events, incidents, and metrics related to target Oracle workloads.
Enterprise Manager Cloud Control
Oracle Enterprise Manager downloads
Monitoring best practices white paper for Enterprise Manager
Azure Monitor and alerts
Use Azure Monitor to collect telemetry data and gain insights into the health, performance, and availability of your Azure resources. You can deploy Oracle Enterprise Manager on a separate VM to monitor, maintain, and manage Oracle environments. You can load Oracle Enterprise Manager text logs to Log Analytics and use them with Azure Monitor so that you can monitor all of these metrics in one place.
Oracle diagnostic tools
Next steps
Strategic impact of Oracle on Azure landing zone accelerator
Plan for Oracle on Azure
Introduction to Oracle on Azure adoption scenarios
BCDR for Oracle on Virtual Machines landing zone accelerator
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources