Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure in China developer guide
Article
2025-02-05
15 contributors
In this article
There are tools and documents to help developers create and deploy cloud applications to Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet (Azure in China). Most of the currently available technical content, such as the globalAzure documentation, assumes that applications are being developed for Azure global.Azure Docs for China(in Chinese) supplies technical content adapted for Azure in China. For services available in Azure in China, seeService availability and roadmaps of Azure in China.
When referring to publicly available content for Azure global services, make sure to adapt the steps or customize any sample code that specifies settings for Azure global services. For example, customize theAzure service endpoints.
Develop for Azure users
If you’re accustomed to developing cloud services for users in other regions, make sure you consider the following user expectations in China:
Mobile first:Mobile devices, not PCs, are considered the source of the online world. Make sure your design strategy is mobile-centric.
QR codes and screen-scanning behavior:Websites, print ads, business cards, and other media commonly include QR codes. Include QR codes in your website header and footer, so visitors can quickly load the site’s mobile version on their phones.
Content localization:Localizing is more than just translating content. Take time to understand the digital environment of your target market and the cultural ramifications of your business decisions. Then tailor your content accordingly.
Use social sites and media services in China
Commonly used western social media sites and services may be blocked in China. When operating a web presence in China:
Avoid connecting to Google services on your website’s front end. Google, along with all of its services, is blocked in China. For best results, your site might need to avoid using Google services. For example, replace Google Maps with Baidu Maps, and use self-hosted fonts instead of Google fonts.
Don't embed videos from YouTube or Vimeo. Both services are blocked in China. Host your video locally or on Chinese video hosting sites, such as Youku, Qiyi, Tudou, or use Azure Media Services. Optimize your site for Baidu, the most frequently used search engine in China, by using a search engine optimization (SEO) audit tool.
Create a China-specific social network presence. Globally popular social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, are blocked. Create a social marketing strategy specifically tailored for the social networks in China, such as WeChat and Sina Weibo. Azure doesn’t currently offer local social network integration (that is, a social identity provider).
Check endpoints in Azure
Azure in China differs from Azure global, so any Azure service endpoints from Azure global sources, such as sample code or published documentation, must be changed. For details about endpoints used in Azure in China, seeAzure in China REST endpoints.
See also:
Azure Datacenter IP Ranges in China
Application Insights
Note
Codeless agent/extension based monitoring for Azure App Services iscurrently not supported. Snapshot Debugger is also not currently available.
SDK endpoint modifications
In order to send data from Application Insights in this region, you will need to modify the default endpoint addresses that are used by the Application Insights SDKs. Each SDK requires slightly different modifications. For example code showing how to modify the endpoints for each SDK, seeApplication Insights.
Next steps
Azure Datacenter IP Ranges in China
Azure Architecture Center
Additional resources