Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Install SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT) for Visual Studio
Article
2025-04-10
53 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL ServerAzure SQL DatabaseAzure SQL Managed InstanceAzure Synapse AnalyticsSQL database in Microsoft Fabric
SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT)is a set of development tooling for building SQL Server databases, Azure SQL databases, Analysis Services (AS) data models, Integration Services (IS) packages, and Reporting Services (RS) reports. With SSDT, you can design and deploy SQL objects with the same project concept as other application development tools. TheSQL projectscapability extends to CI/CD pipelines, enabling you to automate the build and deployment of your database projects with theSqlPackage CLI.
The release notes for SSDT and its components are available forVisual Studio 2017, 2019, and 2022. An overview of the core SSDT functionality is provided in theSSDT Overview.

SSDT is installed as a Visual Studio component, both foronline installationandoffline installation. Analysis Services, Integration Services, and Reporting Services projects are available as separate extensions for each version.
Note
SDK-style SQL projects in Visual Studio are available as part of theSQL Server Data Tools, SDK-style (preview)feature for Visual Studio 2022, separate from the original SSDT. The SDK-style project format is based on the new SDK-style projects introduced in .NET Core and is the format used by the SQL Database Projects extension for Azure Data Studio and VS Code. For more information, seeSQL Server Data Tools, SDK-style (preview).
Install SSDT with Visual Studio
IfVisual Studio 2022orVisual Studio 2019is already installed, you can edit the list of workloads to include SSDT. If you don't have Visual Studio 2019/2022 installed, then you can download and installVisual Studio 2022.
To modify the installed Visual Studio workloads to include SSDT, use the Visual Studio Installer.
Launch the Visual Studio Installer. In the Windows Start menu, you can search for "installer."
Launch the Visual Studio Installer. In the Windows Start menu, you can search for "installer."
In the installer, selectModifyfor the version of Visual Studio to which you want to add SSDT.
In the installer, selectModifyfor the version of Visual Studio to which you want to add SSDT.
SelectSQL Server Data ToolsunderData storage and processingin the list of workloads.
SelectSQL Server Data ToolsunderData storage and processingin the list of workloads.

Visual Studio for Arm64
Visual Studio is available as anative Arm64 applicationon Windows 11 Arm64. In Visual Studio 17.10 and later, SSDT is available for Arm64 withsome limitations. To install or configure Visual Studio to include SSDT on an Arm64 device:
Install Visual Studio 17.10 or later on your Arm64 device.
Install Visual Studio 17.10 or later on your Arm64 device.
In the installer, select theIndividual componentstab and search forSQL Server Data Tools.
In the installer, select theIndividual componentstab and search forSQL Server Data Tools.

SelectSQL Server Data Toolsand then chooseModify.
SelectSQL Server Data Toolsand then chooseModify.
Install extensions for Analysis Services, Integration Services, and Reporting Services
For Analysis Services (SSAS), Integration Services (SSIS), or Reporting Services (SSRS) projects, you can install the appropriateextensionsfrom within Visual Studio withExtensions>Manage Extensionsor from theMarketplace.
Visual Studio 2022 extensions
Visual Studio 2019 extensions
Extensions for Visual Studio 2022:
Analysis Services
Integration Services
Reporting Services
Extensions for Visual Studio 2019:
Analysis Services
Integration Services
Reporting Services
Supported SQL versions
Supported SQL versions in Visual Studio 2022
Supported SQL versions in Visual Studio 2019
Supported SQL versions in Visual Studio 2022:
Supported SQL versions in Visual Studio 2019:
Offline installation
For scenarios where offline installation is required, such as low bandwidth or isolated networks, SSDT is available for offline installation. Two approaches are available:
For a single machine,Download All, then install
For installation on one or more machines,use the Visual Studio bootstrapper from the command line
For more details, you can follow theStep-by-Step Guidelines for Offline Installation
License terms for Visual Studio
To understand the license terms and use cases for Visual Studio, refer toVisual Studio License Directory. For example, if you're using the Community Edition of Visual Studio for SQL Server Data Tools, review the end user licensing agreement (EULA) for that specific edition of Visual Studio in the Visual Studio License Directory.
Previous versions
To download and install SSDT for Visual Studio 2017, or an older version of SSDT, seePrevious releases of SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT and SSDT-BI).
Related content
SSDT Team Blog
DACFx API Reference
Download SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)
SQL Database Projects extension
Project-Oriented Offline Database Development
SSIS How to Create an ETL Package
Analysis Services tutorials
Create a basic table report (SSRS tutorial)
Get help
Ideas for SQL: Have suggestions for improving SQL Server?
Microsoft Q & A (SQL Server)
DBA Stack Exchange (tag sql-server): Ask SQL Server questions
Stack Overflow (tag sql-server): Answers to SQL development questions
Microsoft SQL Server License Terms and Information
Support options for business users
Additional SQL Server help and feedback
Contribute to SQL documentation
Did you know that you can edit SQL content yourself? If you do so, not only do you help improve our documentation, but you also get credited as a contributor to the page.
For more information, seeEdit Microsoft Learn documentation.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources