Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Understand scope in Azure Policy
Article
2025-03-04
7 contributors
In this article
There are many settings that determine which resources are capable of being evaluated and which resources Azure Policy evaluates. The primary concept for these controls isscope. Scope in Azure Policy is based on how scope works in Azure Resource Manager. For a high-level overview, seeScope in Azure Resource Manager.
This article explains the importance ofscopein Azure Policy and the related objects and properties.
Definition location
The first instance scope used by Azure Policy is when a policy definition is created. The definition might be saved in either a management group or a subscription. The location determines the scope to which the initiative or policy can be assigned. Resources must be within the resource hierarchy of the definition location to target for assignment. Theresources covered by Azure Policydescribes how policies are evaluated.
If the definition location is a:
Subscription: The subscription where policy is defined and resources within that subscription can be assigned the policy definition.
Management group: The management group where the policy is defined and resources within child management groups and child subscriptions can be assigned the policy definition. If you plan to apply the policy definition to several subscriptions, the location must be a management group that contains each subscription.
The location should be the resource container shared by all resources you want to use the policy definition on exist. This resource container is typically a management group near the root management group.
Assignment scopes
An assignment has several properties that set a scope. The use of these properties determines which resource for Azure Policy to evaluate and which resources count toward compliance. These properties map to the following concepts:
Inclusion: A definition evaluates compliance for a resource hierarchy or individual resource. The assignment object's scope determines what to include and evaluate for compliance. For more information, seeAzure Policy assignment structure.
Exclusion: A definition shouldn't evaluate compliance for a resource hierarchy or individual resource. Theproperties.notScopesarrayproperty on an assignment object determines what to exclude. Resources within these scopes aren't evaluated or included in the compliance count. For more information, seeAzure Policy assignment structure excluded scopes.
properties.notScopes
In addition to the properties on the policy assignment, is theAzure Policy exemption structureobject. Exemptions enhance the scope story by providing a method to identify a portion of an assignment to not be evaluated.
Exemption: A definition evaluates compliance for a resource hierarchy or individual resource, but doesn't evaluate for a reason such as a waiver or mitigation through another method. Resources in this state show asExemptedin compliance reports so that they can be tracked. The exemption object is created on the resource hierarchy or individual resource as a child object, which determines the scope of the exemption. A resource hierarchy or individual resource can be exempt from multiple assignments. The exemption might be configured to expire on a schedule by using theexpiresOnproperty. For more information, seeAzure Policy exemption structure.
expiresOn
Note
Due to the impact of granting an exemption for a resource hierarchy or individual resource, exemptions have additional security measures. In addition to requiring theMicrosoft.Authorization/policyExemptions/writeoperation on the resource hierarchy or individual resource, the creator of an exemption must have theexempt/Actionverb on the target assignment.
Microsoft.Authorization/policyExemptions/write
exempt/Action
Scope comparison
The following table is a comparison of the scope options:
So how do you choose whether to use an exclusion or exemption? Typically exclusions are recommended to permanently bypass evaluation for a broad scope like a test environment that doesn't require the same level of governance. Exemptions are recommended for time-bound or more specific scenarios where a resource or resource hierarchy should still be tracked and would otherwise be evaluated, but there's a specific reason it shouldn't be assessed for compliance.
Next steps
Learn about thepolicy definition structure.
Understand how toprogrammatically create policies.
Learn how toget compliance data.
Learn how toremediate non-compliant resources.
Learn more about how toOrganize your resources with Azure management groups.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources