Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Frequently asked questions for Azure Information Protection (AIP)
Article
2024-05-13
18 contributors
In this article
Note
Are you looking forMicrosoft Purview Information Protection, formerly Microsoft Information Protection (MIP)?
The Azure Information Protection add-in isretiredand replaced with labels that arebuilt in to your Microsoft 365 apps and services. Learn more about thesupport status of other Azure Information Protection components.
TheMicrosoft Purview Information Protection client(without the add-in) isgenerally available.
Have a question about Azure Information Protection (AIP), or about the Azure Rights Management service (Azure RMS)?
See if it's answered below or on thesubsequent, more specific, FAQ pages.
What's the difference between Azure Information Protection and Microsoft Purview Information Protection?
Unlike Azure Information Protection,Microsoft Purview Information Protectionisn't a subscription or product that you can buy. Instead, it's a framework for products and integrated capabilities that help you protect your organization's sensitive information.
Microsoft Purview Information Protection products include:
Azure Information Protection
Microsoft 365 Information Protection, such as Microsoft 365 DLP
Windows Information Protection
Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps
Microsoft Purview Information Protection capabilities include:
Unified label management
End-user labeling experiences built into Office apps
The ability for Windows to understand unified labels and apply protection to data
The Microsoft Information Protection SDK
Functionality in Adobe Acrobat Reader to view labeled and protected PDFs
For more information, seeInformation protection capabilities to help protect your sensitive data.
What's the difference between Azure Information Protection and Azure Rights Management?
Azure Information Protection (AIP) provides classification, labeling, and protection for an organization's documents and emails.
Content is protected using the Azure Rights Management service, which is now a component of AIP.
For more information, seeHow AIP protects your dataandWhat is Azure Rights Management?.
What subscription do I need for Azure Information Protection and what features are included?
To understand more about AIP subscriptions, see:
Microsoft 365 licensing guidance for security & compliance
Modern Work Plan Comparison(PDF download)
Do you need to be a global admin to configure Azure Information Protection, or can I delegate to other administrators?
Global administrators for a Microsoft 365 tenant or Microsoft Entra tenant can obviously run all administrative tasks for Azure Information Protection.
However, if you want to assign administrative permissions to other users, do so using the following roles:
Azure Information Protection administrator
Compliance administrator or Compliance data administrator
Security administrator
Azure Rights Management Global Administrator and Connector Administrator
Additionally, note the following when managing administrative tasks and roles:
Azure Information Protection administrator
This Microsoft Entra administrator role lets an administrator configure Azure Information Protection but not other services.
Administrators with this role can:
Activate and deactivate the Azure Rights Management protection service
Configure protection settings and labels
Configure the Azure Information Protection policy
Run all the PowerShell cmdlets for theAzure Information Protection clientand from theAIPService module
To assign a user to this administrative role, seeAssign a user to administrator roles in Microsoft Entra ID.
Compliance administrator or Compliance data administrator
These Microsoft Entra administrator roles enable administrators to:
Configure Azure Information Protection, including activating and deactivating the Azure Rights Management protection service
Configure protection settings and labels
Configure the Azure Information Protection policy
Run all the PowerShell cmdlets for theAzure Information Protection clientand from theAIPService module.
To assign a user to this administrative role, seeAssign a user to administrator roles in Microsoft Entra ID.
To see what other permissions a user with these roles have, see theAvailable rolessection from the Microsoft Entra documentation.
Note
These roles don't supporttracking and revokingdocuments for users.
Security administrator
This Microsoft Entra administrator role enables administrators to configure Azure Information Protection in the Azure portal and some aspects of other Azure services.
Administrators with this role cannot run any of thePowerShell cmdlets from the AIPService module, ortrack and revokedocuments for users.
To assign a user to this administrative role, seeAssign a user to administrator roles in Microsoft Entra ID.
To see what other permissions a user with this role has, see theAvailable rolessection from the Microsoft Entra documentation.
Azure Rights Management Global Administrator and Connector Administrator
The Global Administrator role enables users to run allPowerShell cmdlets from the AIPService modulewithout making them a global administrator for other cloud services.
The Connector Administrator role enables users to run only the Rights Management (RMS) connector.
These administrative roles don't grant permissions to management consoles. The Connector Administrator role also does not supporttracking and revokingdocuments for users.
To assign either of these administrative roles, use the AIPService PowerShell cmdlet,Add-AipServiceRoleBasedAdministrator.
Does Azure Information Protection support on-premises and hybrid scenarios?
Yes. Although Azure Information Protection is a cloud-based solution, it can classify, label, and protect documents and emails that are stored on-premises, as well as in the cloud.
If you have Exchange Server, SharePoint Server, and Windows file servers, use one or both of the following methods:
Deploy theRights Management connectorso that these on-premises servers can use the Azure Rights Management service to protect your emails and documents
Synchronize and federate your Active Directory domain controllers with Microsoft Entra ID for a more seamless authentication experience for users. For example, useMicrosoft Entra Connect.
The Azure Rights Management service automatically generates and manages XrML certificates as required, so it doesn't use an on-premises PKI.
For more information about how Azure Rights Management uses certificates, see theWalkthrough of how Azure RMS works: First use, content protection, content consumption.
What types of data can Azure Information Protection classify and protect?
Azure Information Protection can classify and protect email messages and documents, whether they are located on-premises or in the cloud. These documents include Word documents, Excel spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations, PDF documents, text-based files, and image files.
For more information, see the full listfile types supported.
Note
Azure Information Protection cannot classify and protect structured data such as database files, calendar items, Yammer posts, Sway content, and OneNote notebooks.
Tip
Power BI supports classification by using sensitivity labels and can apply protection from those labels to data that is exported to the following file formats: .pdf, .xls, and .ppt. For more information, seeData protection in Power BI.
I see Azure Information Protection is listed as an available cloud app for conditional access—how does this work?
Yes, you can configure Microsoft Entra Conditional Access for Azure Information Protection.
When a user opens a document that is protected by Azure Information Protection, administrators can now block or grant access to users in their tenant, based on the standard conditional access controls. Requiring multifactor authentication (MFA) is one of the most commonly requested conditions. Another one is that devices must becompliant with your Intune policiesso that, for example, mobile devices meet your password requirements and a minimum operating system version, and computers must be domain-joined.
For more information, seeConditional Access policies and encrypted documents.
Additional information:
Note
The Azure Information Protection support for conditional access is currently in PREVIEW. TheAzure Preview Supplemental Termsinclude additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Is Azure Information Protection suitable for my country?
Different countries have different requirements and regulations. To help you answer this question for your organization, seeSuitability for different countries.
How can Azure Information Protection help with GDPR?
Note
If you’re interested in viewing or deleting personal data, please review Microsoft's guidance in theMicrosoft Purview Compliance Managerand in theGDPR section of the Microsoft 365 Enterprise Compliancesite. If you’re looking for general information about GDPR, see theGDPR section of the Service Trust portal.
Where can I find supporting information for Azure Information Protection—such as legal, compliance, and SLAs?
SeeCompliance and supporting information for Azure Information Protection.
How can I report a problem or send feedback for Azure Information Protection?
For technical support, use your standard support channels orcontact Microsoft Support.
We also invite you to engage with our engineering team, on theirAzure Information Protection Yammer site.
What do I do if my question isn't here?
First, review the frequently asked questions listed below, which are specific to classification and labeling, or specific to data protection. TheAzure Rights Management service (Azure RMS)provides the data protection technology for Azure Information Protection. Azure RMS can be used with classification and labeling, or by itself.
FAQs for classification and labeling
FAQs for classification and labeling
FAQs for data protection
FAQs for data protection
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources