Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Migration overview: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure VMs
Article
2025-01-08
2 contributors
In this article
Applies to:SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines
Learn about the different migration strategies to migrate your SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs).
You can migrate SQL Server running on-premises or on:
SQL Server on Virtual Machines
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)
Google Compute Engine
For other migration guides, seeDatabase Migration.
Overview
Migrate toSQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs)when you want to use the familiar SQL Server environment with OS control, and want to take advantage of cloud-provided features such as built-in VM high availability,automated backups, andautomated patching.
Save on costs by bringing your own license with theAzure Hybrid Benefit licensing modelor extend support for SQL Server 2012 by gettingfree security updates.
Choose appropriate target
Azure Virtual Machines run in many different regions of Azure and also offer variousmachine sizesandAzure managed disk types.
When determining the correct size of VM and Storage for your SQL Server workload, refer to thePerformance Guidelines for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines..
You can use theAzure SQL migration extension for Azure Data Studioto get right-sized SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines recommendation. The extension collects performance data from your source SQL Server instance to provide right-sized Azure recommendation that meets your workload's performance needs with minimal cost. To learn more, seeGet Azure recommendations to migrate your SQL Server database.
To determine the VM size and storage requirements for all your workloads in your data estate, you should size them through a Performance-BasedAzure Migrate Assessment. If this isn't an available option, see the following article on creating your ownbaseline for performance.
Consideration should also be made on the correct installation and configuration of SQL Server on a VM. You should use theAzure SQL virtual machine image gallery, as this allows you to create a SQL Server VM with the right version, edition, and operating system. This will also register the Azure VM with the SQL Serverresource providerautomatically, enabling features such as Automated Backups and Automated Patching.
Migration strategies
There are two migration strategies to migrate your user databases to an instance of SQL Server on Azure VMs:migrate, andlift and shift.
The appropriate approach for your business typically depends on the following factors:
Size and scale of migration
Speed of migration
Application support for code change
Need to change SQL Server Version, Operating System, or both.
Supportability life cycle of your existing products
Window for application downtime during migration
The following table describes differences in the two migration strategies:
Lift and shift
The following table details the available method for thelift and shiftmigration strategy to migrate your SQL Server database to SQL Server on Azure VMs:
Note
It's now possible to lift and shift both yourfailover cluster instanceandavailability groupsolution to SQL Server on Azure VMs using Azure Migrate.
Migrate
Owing to the ease of setup, the recommended migration approach is to take a native SQL Serverbackuplocally, and then copy the file to Azure. This method supports larger databases (>1 TB) for all versions of SQL Server starting from 2008 and larger database backups (>1 TB). Starting with SQL Server 2014, for database smaller than 1 TB that have good connectivity to Azure,SQL Server backup to URLis the better approach.
When migrating SQL Server databases to an instance of SQL Server on Azure VMs, it's important to choose an approach that suits when you need to cut over to the target server as this affects the application downtime window.
The following table details all available methods to migrate your SQL Server database to SQL Server on Azure VMs:
For large data transfers with limited to no network options, seeData transfer for large datasets with low or no network bandwidth.
Tip
You can lift and shift both yourfailover cluster instanceandavailability groupsolution to SQL Server on Azure VMs using Azure Migrate.
Considerations
The following list provides key points to consider when reviewing migration methods:
For optimum data transfer performance, migrate databases and files onto an instance of SQL Server on Azure VM using a compressed backup file. For larger databases, in addition to compression,split the backup file into smaller filesfor increased performance during backup and transfer.
If migrating from SQL Server 2014 or higher, considerencrypting the backupsto protect data during network transfer.
To minimize downtime during database migration, use the Azure SQL migration extension in Azure Data Studio or Always On availability group option.
For limited to no network options, use offline migration methods such as backup and restore, ordisk transfer servicesavailable in Azure.
To also change the version of SQL Server on a SQL Server on Azure VM, seechange SQL Server edition.
Business Intelligence
There might be additional considerations when migrating SQL Server Business Intelligence services outside the scope of database migrations.
SQL Server Integration Services
You can migrate SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages and projects in SSISDB to SQL Server on Azure VM using one of the following two methods.
Backup and restore the SSISDB from the source SQL Server instance to SQL Server on Azure VM. This restores your packages in the SSISDB to theIntegration Services Catalog on your target SQL Server on Azure VM.
Redeploy your SSIS packages on your target SQL Server on Azure VM using one of thedeployment options.
If you have SSIS packages deployed as package deployment model, you can convert them before migration. For more information, see theproject conversion tutorial.
SQL Server Reporting Services
To migrate your SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports to your target SQL Server on Azure VM, seeMigrate a Reporting Services Installation (Native Mode).
Alternatively, you can also migrate SSRS reports to paginated reports in Power BI. Use the RDL Migration Toolto help prepare and migrate your reports. Microsoft developed this tool to help customers migrate Report Definition Language (RDL) reports from their SSRS servers to Power BI. It's available on GitHub, and it documents an end-to-end walkthrough of the migration scenario.
SQL Server Analysis Services
SQL Server Analysis Services databases (multidimensional or tabular models) can be migrated from your source SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure VM using one of the following options:
Interactively using SSMS
Programmatically using Analysis Management Objects (AMO)
By script using XMLA (XML for Analysis)
SeeMove an Analysis Services Databaseto learn more.
Alternatively, you can consider migrating your on-premises Analysis Services tabular models toAzure Analysis Servicesor toPower BI Premium by using the new XMLA read/write endpoints.
Server objects
Depending on the setup in your source SQL Server, there might be additional SQL Server features that require manual intervention to migrate them to SQL Server on Azure VM by generating scripts in Transact-SQL (T-SQL) using SQL Server Management Studio and then running the scripts on the target SQL Server on Azure VM. Some of the commonly used features are:
Logins and roles
Linked servers
External Data Sources
Agent jobs
Alerts
Database Mail
Replication
For a complete list of metadata and server objects that you need to move, seeManage Metadata When Making a Database Available on Another Server.
Supported versions
As you prepare for migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Server on Azure VMs, be sure to consider the versions of SQL Server that are supported. For a list of current supported SQL Server versions on Azure VMs, seeSQL Server on Azure VMs.
Migration assets
For additional assistance, see the following resources that were developed for real world migration projects.
The Data SQL Engineering team developed these resources. This team's core charter is to unblock and accelerate complex modernization for data platform migration projects to Microsoft's Azure data platform.
Related content
Migration guide: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines
Services and tools available for data migration scenarios
What is Azure SQL?
What is SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines?
Azure total Cost of Ownership Calculator
Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
Best practices for costing and sizing workloads migrate to Azure
Change the license model for a SQL virtual machine in Azure
Extend support for SQL Server with Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources