Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Germany IT-Grundschutz workbook
Article
2023-06-13
2 contributors
In this article
Germany IT-Grundschutz workbook overview
To help organizations secure IT systems, theGerman Federal Office for Information Security(Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, or BSI) created a baseline set of standards for protecting information technology (in German, IT-Grundschutz). These standards consist of:
BSI Standard 200-1 defines an an information security management system (ISMS) based on ISO/IEC 27001
BSI Standard 200-2 describes how to set up and operate an ISMS according to the IT-Grundschutz methodology
BSI Standard 200-3 contains all risk-related tasks
The IT-Grundschutz Catalogues describe potential threats and safeguards for typical business environments
Microsoft and IT-Grundschutz workbooks
To help you achieve your IT-Grundschutz certification, Microsoft Germany has published the IT-Grundschutz Compliance workbooks for solutions and workloads deployed on Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365. Developed by HiSolutions AG, an independent consulting and auditing firm in Germany, the workbooks are based on IT-Grundschutz Catalogue 2021, which includes modules covering internet and cloud usage, such as OPS.2.2 Cloud Usage, and updates to the IT-Grundschutz Catalogue from 2023.
These workbooks can help you implement the IT-Grundschutz methodology within the scope of your existing or planned ISO/IEC 27001 certification. They describe how to apply the IT-Grundschutz methodology to applications in the cloud and outline how to implement all audit-relevant safeguards from the IT-Grundschutz module OPS.2.2 Cloud Usage. The workbooks also provide information about implementing the BSIMinimum Standard on the Usage of External Cloud Servicesfor German federal authorities.
Applicability
Azure
Services in scope
Azure
Dynamics 365
Office 365
Attestation documents
IT-Grundschutz Compliance workbooks are available from the Service Trust Portalregional resources for Germany. For instructions on how to access audit reports and certificates, seeAudit documentation.
Frequently asked questions
Can I use the Microsoft IT-Grundschutz Compliance workbooks to help my organization comply with IT-Grundschutz?Yes. The purpose of the workbooks is to help you use Microsoft cloud services to implement the IT-Grundschutz methodology within the scope of your existing or planned ISO/IEC 27001 certification based on IT-Grundschutz.
What's the difference between the IT-Grundschutz and C5 catalogues?The IT-Grundschutz supplies the specific methodology to help organizations identify and implement security measures for IT systems, and is one of the elements upon which the Cloud Computing Compliance Criteria Catalogue (C5) standard is built. C5 is an auditing standard from BSI that establishes a mandatory minimum baseline for cloud security and the adoption of public cloud solutions by German government agencies and organizations that work with government. For more information, seeAzure C5:2020 documentation.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
German Federal Office for Information Security(Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, or BSI)
Additional resources