Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Move an Azure Database for MariaDB server to another region by using the Azure portal
Article
2022-06-24
1 contributor
In this article
Important
Azure Database for MariaDB is on the retirement path. We strongly recommend that you migrate to Azure Database for MySQL. For more information about migrating to Azure Database for MySQL, seeWhat's happening to Azure Database for MariaDB?.
There are various scenarios for moving an existing Azure Database for MariaDB server from one region to another. For example, you might want to move a production server to another region as part of your disaster recovery planning.
You can use an Azure Database for MariaDBcross-region read replicato complete the move to another region. To do so, first create a read replica in the target region. Next, stop replication to the read replica server to make it a standalone server that accepts both read and write traffic.
Note
This article focuses on moving your server to a different region. If you want to move your server to a different resource group or subscription, refer to themovearticle.
Prerequisites
The read replica feature is only available for Azure Database for MariaDB servers in the General Purpose or Memory Optimized pricing tiers. Ensure the source server is in one of these pricing tiers.
The read replica feature is only available for Azure Database for MariaDB servers in the General Purpose or Memory Optimized pricing tiers. Ensure the source server is in one of these pricing tiers.
Make sure that your Azure Database for MariaDB source server is in the Azure region that you want to move from.
Make sure that your Azure Database for MariaDB source server is in the Azure region that you want to move from.
Prepare to move
To create a cross-region read replica server in the target region using the Azure portal, use the following steps:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Select the existing Azure Database for MariaDB server that you want to use as the source server. This action opens theOverviewpage.
SelectReplicationfrom the menu, underSETTINGS.
SelectAdd Replica.
Enter a name for the replica server.
Select the location for the replica server. The default location is the same as the source server's. Verify that you've selected the target location where you want the replica to be deployed.
SelectOKto confirm creation of the replica. During replica creation, data is copied from the source server to the replica. Create time may last several minutes or more, in proportion to the size of the source server.
Note
When you create a replica, it doesn't inherit the VNet service endpoints of the source server. These rules must be set up independently for the replica.
Move
Important
The standalone server can't be made into a replica again.
Before you stop replication on a read replica, ensure the replica has all the data that you require.
Stopping replication to the replica server, causes it to become a standalone server. To stop replication to the replica from the Azure portal, use the following steps:
Once the replica has been created, locate and select your Azure Database for MariaDB source server.
SelectReplicationfrom the menu, underSETTINGS.
Select the replica server.
SelectStop replication.
Confirm you want to stop replication by selectingOK.
Clean up source server
You may want to delete the source Azure Database for MariaDB server. To do so, use the following steps:
Once the replica has been created, locate and select your Azure Database for MariaDB source server.
In theOverviewwindow, selectDelete.
Type in the name of the source server to confirm you want to delete.
SelectDelete.
Next steps
In this tutorial, you moved an Azure Database for MariaDB server from one region to another by using the Azure portal and then cleaned up the unneeded source resources.
Learn more aboutread replicas
Learn more aboutmanaging read replicas in the Azure portal
Learn more aboutbusiness continuityoptions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources