Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Resource impact from Azure planned maintenance
Article
2025-01-27
5 contributors
In this article
In support of the experience for viewing Impacted Resources, Service Health has features to:
Display resources that are impacted by a planned maintenance event.
Provide impacted resources information for planned maintenance through the Service Health Portal.
This article details what is communicated to users and where they can view information about their impacted resources.
Viewing impacted resources for planned maintenance events in the Service Health portal
In the Azure portal, theImpacted Resourcestab underService Health>Planned Maintenancedisplays resources affected by a planned maintenance event. The following example of the Impacted Resources tab shows a planned maintenance event with impacted resources.

Service Health provides the following information on resources impacted by a planned maintenance event:
Note
Fields with an asterisk * are optional fields that are available depending on the resource type.
Filters
Customers can filter the results using these filters:
Region
Subscription ID: All subscription IDs the user has access to
Resource Type: All resource types under the users' subscriptions

Export to CSV
The list of impacted resources can be exported as an Excel file by clicking on this option.

The CSV file includes the properties associated with each event and more details per event level. This CSV file could be used as a static point in time snapshot for all the active events under theService Health>Planned maintenanceview. These details are a subset of more event level information available through Service Health API, which could be integrated with Event Grid or other events automation solutions.

The following table contains a short description of each of the column properties.
Note
Fields with an asterisk * are newly introduced properties which might be empty for some services, since they have yet to adopt the new layout.
Maintenance Impact Type and Impact Duration fields
In our continuous quest to make thePlanned maintenancenotifications more reliable and predictable for customers, we recently added 3 new properties, specifically on the impact aspect for the published event. These properties are currently available through CSV export option or through Service Health API call.
Note
We are enabling more services to include these fields as part of event publishing, however there's a subset of services which are in process of onboarding and these fields might show no value for their events.
The new propertyImpact Typeis the key to answering this common concern. Among other enhancements across the Azure Service Health portal UI for maintenance events, the most important addition is the new Impact Type field which gives a quick idea on what is the presumptive or overall impact expected during the scheduled window.
We currently have a predefined set of categories which cover or represent different impact symptoms across Azure Services. There's a likelihood of minor overlap, as each service has its unique criteria onImpact, as per product design.
The following table provides more insight into possible values for Impact Type property. The description columns also show the mapping with industry standard terms like blackout, brownout, and grayout.
Impact duration
The Impact Duration field would show a numeric value representing the time in seconds the event would affect the listed resource. Depending on the service resiliency and implementation design, this Duration field combined with Impact Type field should help in overall level of Impact users might expect.
One key aspect to call out is the difference between the event StartTime/EndTime and the duration. While the event level fields like Start/End times represent the scheduled work window, the Impact duration field represents the actualdowntimewithin that scheduled work window.
Next steps
Introduction to the Azure Service Health dashboard
Introduction to Azure Resource Health
Frequently asked questions about Azure Resource Health
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources