Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Use Event Hubs Data Explorer to run data operations on Event Hubs
Article
2025-02-18
3 contributors
In this article
Azure Event Hubs is a scalable event processing service that ingests and processes large volumes of events and data, with low latency and high reliability. For a high-level overview of the service, seeWhat is Event Hubs?.
Developers and Operators are often looking for an easy tool to send sample data to their event hub to test the end-to-end flow, or view events at a specific offset (or point in time) for light debugging, often after the fact. The Event Hubs Data Explorer makes these common workflows simple by eliminating the need to write bespoke client applications to test and inspect the data on the event hub.
This article highlights the functionality of Azure Event Hubs Data explorer that is made available on the Azure portal.
Important
If your Event Hubs namespace can only be accessed via a private endpoint, access Event Hubs Data Explorer from a virtual machine in the same virtual network with the private endpoint, which ensures that the web browser has required access to the private endpoint.
Operations run on an Azure Event Hubs namespace are of two kinds.
Management Operations - Create, update, delete of Event Hubs namespace, and event hubs.
Data Operations - Send and view events from an event hub.
Important
The Event Hubs Data Explorer doesn't supportmanagement operations. The event hub must be created before the data explorer can send or view events from that event hub.
While events payloads (known asvaluesin Kafka) sent using theKafka protocolis visible via the data explorer, thekeyfor the specific event isn't visible.
We advise against using the Event Hubs Data Explorer for larger messages, as it can result in time-outs, depending on the message size, network latency between client and Service Bus service etc. Instead, we recommend that you use your own client to work with larger messages, where you can specify your own time-out values.
The operations that a user can perform using Event Hubs Data Explorer is determined by therole-based access control (RBAC)role that the user is assigned to.
Prerequisites
To use the Event Hubs Data Explorer tool,create an Azure Event Hubs namespace and an event hub.
Use the Event Hubs Data Explorer
To use the Event Hubs data explorer, navigate to the Event Hubs namespace on which you want to perform the data operations.
Either navigate to theData Explorerdirectly where you can pick the event hub, or pick the event hub from theentitiesand then pick theData Explorerfrom the navigation menu.
Data Explorer
entities
Data Explorer

Send Events
You can send either custom payloads, or precanned datasets to the selected event hub using theSend eventsexperience.
Send events
To do so, select thesend eventsbutton, which enables the right pane.
send events

To send a custom payload -
Select Dataset- PickCustom payload. You can also select pre-canned datasets such as Yellow Taxi data, Weather data, etc. as shown in the next section.
Custom payload
Select theContent-Type, from eitherText/Plain,JSON, orXML.
Text/Plain
JSON
XML
Either upload a JSON file, or type out the payload in theEnter payloadbox.
[Optional]Specify system properties.
[Optional]Specify custom properties - available as key-value pair.
[Optional]If you wish to send multiple payloads, check theRepeat sendbox, and specify theRepeat send count(that is, the number of payloads to send) and theInterval between repeat send in ms.
Once the payload details are defined, selectSendto send the event payload as defined.

To send event payloads from a precanned dataset -
Select Dataset- Pick an option from thePre canned datasets, for example, Yellow taxi, Weather data, and others.
[Optional]Specify system properties.
[Optional]Specify custom properties - available as key-value pairs.
[Optional]If you wish to send multiple payloads, check theRepeat sendbox, and specify theRepeat send count(that is, the number of payloads to send) and theInterval between repeat send in ms.
Once the payload details are defined, selectSendto send the event payload as defined.

View Events
Event Hubs data explorer enables viewing the events to inspect the data that fit the criteria.
To view events, you can define the below properties, or rely on the default -

PartitionID- Pick either a specific partition or selectAll partition IDs.
Consumer Group- Pick the$Defaultor another consumer group, or create one on the fly.
Event position- Pick theoldest position(that is, the start of the event hub),Newest position(that is, latest),Custom position(for a specific offset, sequence number or timestamp).Oldest position: Begin receiving events from the first event in the partition which wasn't expired due to the retention policy.Custom position: Add filter to specify the position in the partition to begin receiving events from.Newest position: Begin receiving events from the event that is enqueued right after the view call. Only events sent after last viewing of events are received.
Oldest position: Begin receiving events from the first event in the partition which wasn't expired due to the retention policy.
Custom position: Add filter to specify the position in the partition to begin receiving events from.
Newest position: Begin receiving events from the event that is enqueued right after the view call. Only events sent after last viewing of events are received.
Advanced properties- Specify themaximum batch sizeandmaximum wait time in seconds.
Once the above options are set, selectView eventsto pull the events and render them on the data explorer.

Once the events are loaded, you can selectView next eventsto pull events using the same query again, orClear allto refresh the grid.
Download event payload
When viewing the events on a given event hub, the event payload can be downloaded for further review.
To download the event payload, select the specific event and select thedownloadbutton displayed above the event payload body.

Related content
Learn more aboutEvent Hubs.
Check outEvent Hubs features and terminology
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources