Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Hybrid Identity Required Ports and Protocols
Article
2025-04-09
3 contributors
In this article
The following document is a technical reference on the required ports and protocols for implementing a hybrid identity solution. Use the following illustration and refer to the corresponding table.


Table 1 - Microsoft Entra Connect and On-premises AD
This table describes the ports and protocols that are required for communication between the Microsoft Entra Connect server and on-premises AD.

Table 2 - Microsoft Entra Connect and Microsoft Entra ID
This table describes the ports and protocols that are required for communication between the Microsoft Entra Connect server and Microsoft Entra ID.
For a list of URLs and IP addresses you need to open in your firewall, seeOffice 365 URLs and IP address rangesandTroubleshooting Microsoft Entra Connect connectivity.

Table 3 - Microsoft Entra Connect and AD FS Federation Servers/WAP
This table describes the ports and protocols that are required for communication between the Microsoft Entra Connect server and AD FS Federation/WAP servers.
Table 4 - WAP and Federation Servers
This table describes the ports and protocols that are required for communication between the Federation servers and WAP servers.
Table 5 - WAP and Users
This table describes the ports and protocols that are required for communication between users and the WAP servers.
Table 6a & 6b - Pass-through Authentication with Single Sign On (SSO) and Password Hash Sync with Single Sign On (SSO)
The following tables describes the ports and protocols that are required for communication between the Microsoft Entra Connect and Microsoft Entra ID.
Table 6a - Pass-through Authentication with SSO
In addition, Microsoft Entra Connect needs to be able to make direct IP connections to theAzure data center IP ranges.
Table 6b - Password Hash Sync with SSO
In addition, Microsoft Entra Connect needs to be able to make direct IP connections to theAzure data center IP ranges. Again, this is only required for the SSO registration process.

Table 7a & 7b - Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent for (AD FS/Sync) and Microsoft Entra ID
The following tables describe the endpoints, ports, and protocols that are required for communication between Microsoft Entra Connect Health agents and Microsoft Entra ID

Table 7a - Ports and Protocols for Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent for (AD FS/Sync) and Microsoft Entra ID
This table describes the following outbound ports and protocols that are required for communication between the Microsoft Entra Connect Health agents and Microsoft Entra ID.
If 5671 is blocked, the agent falls back to 443, but using 5671 is recommended. This endpoint isn't required in the latest version of the agent.
The latest Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent versions only require port 443.

7b - Endpoints for Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent for (AD FS/Sync) and Microsoft Entra ID
For a list of endpoints, seethe Requirements section for the Microsoft Entra Connect Health agent.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources