Improved-security access to App Service web apps from an on-premises network
This article shows how to set up improved-security private connectivity to an App Service web app or a function app from an on-premises network or from within an Azure virtual network. It also shows how to set up improved-security connectivity between the app and other Azure PaaS services over Azure Private Link, without using the public internet.
In this article, Azure App Service refers to the pricing tiers where there is shared infrastructure with other App Service customers, such as Basic, Standard, and the Premium tiers. App Service Environment deploys directly into your virtual network with dedicated supporting infrastructure and uses Isolated pricing tiers and is not the focus of this article.
Architecture

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Dataflow
By using Azure App Serviceregional virtual network integration, the web app connects to Azure services through delegated subnetVNet Integration Subnetin an Azure virtual network.TheVNet Integration SubnetandPrivate Endpoint Subnetnetworks are separate virtual networks in different subscriptions. Both networks are peered withHub Virtual Networkas part of a hub-and-spoke network configuration. For regional virtual network integration, the peered virtual networks must be in the same Azure region.
By using Azure App Serviceregional virtual network integration, the web app connects to Azure services through delegated subnetVNet Integration Subnetin an Azure virtual network.
TheVNet Integration SubnetandPrivate Endpoint Subnetnetworks are separate virtual networks in different subscriptions. Both networks are peered withHub Virtual Networkas part of a hub-and-spoke network configuration. For regional virtual network integration, the peered virtual networks must be in the same Azure region.
Azure Private Linkservice sets up aprivate endpointfor the PaaS services, web apps, Azure SQL database, Azure storage account, and Azure Key Vault inPrivate Endpoint Virtual Network.In this example, this virtual network is dedicated for the deployment of private endpoints only. No other resources, like virtual machines (VMs), will be deployed in this virtual network. The future demand to add private endpoints was taken into account when the subnet size was selected.
Azure Private Linkservice sets up aprivate endpointfor the PaaS services, web apps, Azure SQL database, Azure storage account, and Azure Key Vault inPrivate Endpoint Virtual Network.
In this example, this virtual network is dedicated for the deployment of private endpoints only. No other resources, like virtual machines (VMs), will be deployed in this virtual network. The future demand to add private endpoints was taken into account when the subnet size was selected.
The on-premises network and Azure virtual networks can be connected viaSite-to-Site (S2S) VPNorAzure ExpressRoute private peering. Users in the on-premises network access the app privately and with improved security over the private network only.In this example, the on-premises network and Azure virtual networks are connected via ExpressRoute private peering.
The on-premises network and Azure virtual networks can be connected viaSite-to-Site (S2S) VPNorAzure ExpressRoute private peering. Users in the on-premises network access the app privately and with improved security over the private network only.
In this example, the on-premises network and Azure virtual networks are connected via ExpressRoute private peering.
For an on-premises network that already has a Domain Name System (DNS) solution in place, the on-premises DNS solution is configured to forward DNS traffic to an Azure private DNS record (for example, azurewebsites.net) via aconditional forwarderthat forwards the request to the DNS Private Resolver service's inbound endpoint that's deployed in Azure. DNS Private Resolver queries Azure DNS and receives information about the Azure Private DNS virtual network link. Then the resolution is done by theprivate DNS zone linked to the virtual network.Private DNS zones are also deployed in the same subscription asPrivate Endpoint Virtual Network.In this example, a DNS forwarder machine at IP address 192.168.0.254 in the on-premises network forwards all DNS resolution requests to the hostname azurewebsites.net to the DNS Private Resolver service's inbound endpoint in Azure at address 10.0.0.132. Then the requests are resolved by the Azure-provided DNS service, which has IP address 168.63.129.16, via the Azure Private DNS zone that's linked to the virtual network.An outbound endpoint is required to enable conditional forwarding name resolution from Azure to on-premises, other cloud providers, or external DNS servers, using a DNS forwarding ruleset.Configuring a DNS forwarding ruleset isn't required for this scenario.This app service configuration should be present:KeyValueWEBSITE_DNS_SERVER168.63.129.16
For an on-premises network that already has a Domain Name System (DNS) solution in place, the on-premises DNS solution is configured to forward DNS traffic to an Azure private DNS record (for example, azurewebsites.net) via aconditional forwarderthat forwards the request to the DNS Private Resolver service's inbound endpoint that's deployed in Azure. DNS Private Resolver queries Azure DNS and receives information about the Azure Private DNS virtual network link. Then the resolution is done by theprivate DNS zone linked to the virtual network.
Private DNS zones are also deployed in the same subscription asPrivate Endpoint Virtual Network.
In this example, a DNS forwarder machine at IP address 192.168.0.254 in the on-premises network forwards all DNS resolution requests to the hostname azurewebsites.net to the DNS Private Resolver service's inbound endpoint in Azure at address 10.0.0.132. Then the requests are resolved by the Azure-provided DNS service, which has IP address 168.63.129.16, via the Azure Private DNS zone that's linked to the virtual network.
An outbound endpoint is required to enable conditional forwarding name resolution from Azure to on-premises, other cloud providers, or external DNS servers, using a DNS forwarding ruleset.
Configuring a DNS forwarding ruleset isn't required for this scenario.
This app service configuration should be present:
Virtual networks are linked to all the Azure private DNS zones.The virtual network that has private endpoints is automatically linked to the private DNS zones. You need to link the other virtual networks separately.
Virtual networks are linked to all the Azure private DNS zones.
The virtual network that has private endpoints is automatically linked to the private DNS zones. You need to link the other virtual networks separately.
The web app communicates with the private endpoints of the PaaS services inPrivate Endpoint Virtual Networkvia Azure Firewall.
The web app communicates with the private endpoints of the PaaS services inPrivate Endpoint Virtual Networkvia Azure Firewall.
On Azure Firewall, theapplication rulesare configured to allow communication betweenVNet Integration Subnetand the private endpoints of PaaS resources. The target fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) are:*.azurewebsites.net*.database.windows.net*.core.windows.net*.vaultcore.azure.net
On Azure Firewall, theapplication rulesare configured to allow communication betweenVNet Integration Subnetand the private endpoints of PaaS resources. The target fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) are:
*.azurewebsites.net
*.azurewebsites.net
*.database.windows.net
*.database.windows.net
*.core.windows.net
*.core.windows.net
*.vaultcore.azure.net
*.vaultcore.azure.net
Firewall and virtual network configuration for Azure SQL, Azure Storage Account, and Azure Key Vault allows traffic only fromVNet Integration Subnet. The configuration doesn't allow communication with any other virtual network or with the public internet.
Firewall and virtual network configuration for Azure SQL, Azure Storage Account, and Azure Key Vault allows traffic only fromVNet Integration Subnet. The configuration doesn't allow communication with any other virtual network or with the public internet.
Components
Azure App Servicehosts web applications and function apps, allowing autoscale and high availability without requiring you to manage infrastructure.
Azure SQL Databaseis a general-purpose relational-database managed service that supports relational data, spatial data, JSON, and XML.
Azure Storage accountprovides a unique namespace for Azure Storage data that's accessible from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS. It contains all Azure Storage data objects: blobs, file shares, queues, tables, and disks.
Azure Key Vaultis a service for securely storing and accessing API keys, passwords, certificates, cryptographic keys, or any other secrets used by cloud apps and services.
Azure Virtual Networkis the fundamental building block for private networks in Azure. Azure resources like VMs can securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks through virtual networks.
Azure Private Linkprovides a private endpoint in a virtual network for connectivity to Azure PaaS services like Azure Storage and SQL Database, or to customer or partner services.
Azure ExpressRouteprivate peering extends on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection. You could also establish Site-to-Site VPN between on-premises and the Azure network instead of using Azure ExpressRoute.
Azure Firewallis a managed, cloud-based network security service that helps protect Azure Virtual Network resources.
Private DNS Zoneprovides a reliable and secure DNS service for managing and resolving domain names in the virtual network.
DNS Private Resolverenables the querying ofAzure DNSprivate zones from an on-premises environment, and vice-versa, without deploying VM-based DNS servers.
Alternatives
For private connectivity, an alternative approach is to useApp Service Environmentto host the web application in an isolated environment. App Service Environment avoids sharedhosting infrastructurebetween App Service customers. For the database, you can natively deployAzure SQL Managed Instancein a virtual network, so you don't need virtual network Integration or private endpoints. These offerings are typically more expensive because they provide single-tenant isolated deployment and other features.
If you have an App Service Environment but aren't using SQL Managed Instance, you can still use a private endpoint for private connectivity to an Azure SQL database. If you already have SQL Managed Instance but are using an App Service, you can still use regional VNet Integration to connect to the SQL Managed Instance private address.
For some other Azure services, like Key Vault or Storage, there's no alternative to using private endpoints for highly secure and private connections from Web Apps.
Potential use cases
Access an App Service web app or function app privately with improved security over itsprivate endpointfrom an on-premises network or from within Azure virtual networks.
Connect from a web app or function app to Azure platform as a service (PaaS) offerings:Another web appSQL DatabaseAzure StorageKey VaultAny other service that supports Azure private endpoints for inbound connectivity
Another web app
SQL Database
Azure Storage
Key Vault
Any other service that supports Azure private endpoints for inbound connectivity
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeMicrosoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.
Reliability
Reliability ensures your application can meet the commitments you make to your customers. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Reliability.
Private Link support for App Service, Azure SQL Database, Azure Storage, and Azure Key Vault is available in all public regions. To check availability in other regions, seeAzure Private Link availability.
Private Link introduces another component and availability consideration into the architecture. The Private Link service has ahigh-availability SLA. You need to take this SLA into account when you calculate the composite SLO of the entire solution.
Security
Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the abuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Security.
Using Private Endpoint for your web app enables you to:
Help secure your web app by configuring the private endpoint, eliminating public exposure.
Connect with improved security to Web Apps from on-premises networks that connect to the virtual network by using a VPN or ExpressRoute private peering. Inbound connections to the web app are allowed from the on-premises network or from within the Azure virtual network only.
Avoid any data exfiltration from your virtual network.
You can further improve the security of the inbound connection to the web app by fronting the app with a service likeAzure Application GatewayorAzure Front Door, optionally withAzure Web Application Firewall. When you enable Private Endpoint for your web app, theaccess restrictionsconfiguration of the web app isn't evaluated.
This scenario also improves security of the outbound connection from an App Service web app to a downstream dependency like a database, Storage, or Key Vault.
You can configure application routing to route either all traffic or only private traffic (also known asRFC1918traffic) into your virtual network. You configure this behavior by using theRoute Allsetting. IfRoute Allis disabled, the web app routes only private traffic into your virtual network. To block traffic to public addresses, enable theRoute Allsetting to the virtual network. You can also use anetwork security groupto block outbound traffic to resources in your virtual network or the internet. WhenRoute Allisn't enabled, NSGs are applied only to RFC1918 traffic.
In this example, the web app doesn't need to communicate with any service that isn't in the virtual network, soRoute Allis enabled.
An important security consideration in this scenario is the configuration of the firewall for PaaS resources.
Without using private connectivity, you can addfirewall rulesthat allow inbound traffic from specified IP address ranges only. Another approach is toallow Azure servicesto access the server. This approach locks down the firewall to allow only traffic from within Azure. But this traffic includes all Azure regions and other customers.
You can also add a more restrictive firewall rule to allow only your app'soutbound IP addressesto access the database. But these IP addresses are shared with multiple App Services and allow traffic from other customers on the samedeployment stamp, which uses the same outbound IP addresses.
Using private connectivity through the virtual network provides these firewall options to help prevent others from accessing the database:
Create avirtual network rulethat allows traffic only from the regional subnet delegated by VNet Integration,VNet Integration Subnetin this example. The delegated subnet must have aservice endpointconfigured forMicrosoft.Sqlso the database can identify traffic from that subnet.
Configure the firewall todeny public network access. Doing so turns off all other firewall rules and makes the database accessible only through its private endpoint.
The option of denying public network access is the most secure configuration. But if you use this option, database access is possible only via the virtual network that hosts the private endpoint. To connect to the database, anything other than the web app must have direct connectivity to the virtual network.
For example, deployments or urgent manual connections from SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) on local machines can't reach the database except through VPN or ExpressRoute connectivity into the virtual network. You could also remotely connect to a VM in the virtual network and use SSMS from there. For exceptional situations, you could temporarily allow public network access and reduce risk by using other configuration options.
Storage accounts and key vaults have a public endpoint that's accessible from the internet. You can also createprivate endpoints for your storage accountandkey vault. Doing so assigns these services a private IP address from your virtual network and helps to secure all traffic between your virtual network and the respective service over a private link.
When you create a private endpoint,VNet Integration Subnetcan access the service privately and with improved security over a private link. But the storage account and key vault are still accessible from other Azure virtual networks. To block access from any other virtual network, create the service endpoint for this delegated subnet.
Cost Optimization
Cost Optimization is about looking at ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Cost Optimization.
There's no added cost for App Service regional VNet Integration in supported pricing tiers in Basic, Standard, Premium v2, Premium v3, Isolated v2 App Service, and Azure Functions Premium plans.
Private endpoint is available for Windows web apps and Linux web apps, containerized or not, hosted on Basic, Standard, Premium v2, Premium v3, and Isolated v2 App Service plans, and also for function apps deployed to a Premium plan.
The Azure Private Link service that enables the private endpoints for PaaS services has an associated cost that's based on an hourly fee plus a premium on bandwidth. See thePrivate Link pricingpage for details. Connections from a client virtual network to the Azure Firewall in the hub virtual network incur charges. You aren't charged for connections from Azure Firewall in the hub virtual network to private endpoints in a peered virtual network.
Azure Private DNS zone costs are based on the number of DNS zones hosted in Azure and the number of received DNS queries.
To explore the cost of running this scenario, see theAzure pricing calculator estimate. All the services described in this article are preconfigured with reasonable default values for a small-scale application. To see how the pricing would change for your use case, change the appropriate variables to match your expected usage.
Operational Excellence
Operational Excellence covers the operations processes that deploy an application and keep it running in production. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Operational Excellence.
Azure Private Link is integrated withAzure Monitor, which allows you to see if data is flowing.
You can also use the connection troubleshoot service in AzureNetwork Watcherto trace the connectivity from a VM in a virtual network to the FQDN of the Private Endpoint resource.
Performance Efficiency
Performance Efficiency is the ability of your workload to scale to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Performance Efficiency.
For information about integrating Azure Private Link for PaaS services with Azure Private DNS zones in hub-and-spoke network architectures, seePrivate Link and DNS integration at scale.
Any service in any Azure region that can connect through the virtual network can reach the PaaS services' private endpoints, for example, throughvirtual network peeringin hub-and-spoke topologies. However, for App Service regional VNet Integration, the peered virtual networks must be located in the same Azure region.
Lack of global peering support means you can't use this solution for cross-region connectivity from App Service to a database or other private endpoint in another Azure region. For example, this solution wouldn't work for a multiregional deployment to support a partial failover, in which the web app remains active in one region but must connect to a failed-over database in another region, or vice versa. But other solutions exist for this situation.
If you need to connect Web Apps to a virtual network in another region, you can set up gateway-required VNet Integration. The limitation is that gateway-required VNet Integration can't be used with a virtual network connected with Azure ExpressRoute.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributor.
Principal author:
Ankit Singhal| Cloud Solution Architect
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
See step-by-step guidance on how tointegrate Azure Functions with an Azure virtual network by using private endpoints.
See the steps to configureAzure Firewall application rules to inspect traffic destined to private endpoints in various network topologies.
For more information on inbound and outbound scenarios for App Service, and which features to use in which case, see theApp Service networking features overview.
For more information about private endpoints for Azure Web Apps, seeUsing Private Endpoints for Azure Web Apps.
For more information about integrating App Service web apps with Azure Virtual Network, seeIntegrate your app with an Azure virtual network.
The FQDN of some of the PaaS services might resolve automatically to a public IP address. For information about overriding the DNS configuration to connect to the private endpoint, seeAzure Private Endpoint DNS configuration.
Related resources
Web app private connectivity to Azure SQL Database
Tutorial: Integrate Azure Functions with an Azure virtual network by using private endpoints
Tutorial: Establish Azure Functions private site access
Use Key Vault references for App Service and Azure Functions