Map threats to your IT environment
Solution ideas
This article describes a solution idea. Your cloud architect can use this guidance to help visualize the major components for a typical implementation of this architecture. Use this article as a starting point to design a well-architected solution that aligns with your workload's specific requirements.
This article outlines how to diagram your organization's core IT environment and create a threat map. These diagrams are valuable tools for planning and building a robust defensive security layer. Understanding your IT environment and its architecture is crucial for identifying the security services needed to provide adequate protection.
Computer systems hold information that is not only valuable to the organizations that generate it but also to malicious actors. These actors, whether individuals or groups, engage in harmful activities aimed at compromising or damaging the computers, devices, systems, and networks of companies. Their goal is often to steal or corrupt sensitive data using threats like malware or brute force attacks.
In this article, we explore a method for mapping threats to your IT environment, enabling you to plan the implementation of Microsoft security services as part of your security strategy.
The good news is that you don’t need to create a threat map from scratch. The MITRE ATT&CK matrix offers an excellent resource to help you develop one. MITRE ATT&CK is a global knowledge base that maps real-world threats based on observed tactics and techniques. The MITRE Corporation documents every known threat in detail, providing valuable insights into how these threats operate and how you can defend against them. This publicly accessible resource is available online at MITRE ATT&CK®.
In this article, we use a subset of these threats to illustrate how you can map threats to your IT environment.
Potential use cases
Some threats are common across all industries, such as ransomware, DDoS attacks, cross-site scripting, and SQL injection. However, many organizations face specific threats unique to their industry or based on past cyberattacks they’ve encountered. The diagram in this article can help you map those threats for your organization by identifying the areas most likely to be targeted by malicious actors. Creating a threat map enables you to plan the necessary defense layers for a more secure environment.
You can adapt this diagram to model different combinations of attacks and better understand how to prevent and mitigate them. While the MITRE ATT&CK framework is a useful reference, it’s not required. Microsoft Sentinel and other Microsoft security services also collaborate with MITRE to provide valuable insights into various threats.
Some organizations use Cyber Kill Chain®, a methodology from Lockheed Martin, to map and understand how an attack or a series of attacks are performed against an IT environment. Cyber Kill Chain organizes threats and attacks by considering fewer tactics and techniques than the MITRE ATT&CK framework. Still, it's effective in helping you to understand threats and how they might be executed. For more information about this methodology, seeCyber Kill Chain.
Architecture

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
©2021 The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.
For the IT environment of organizations, we specify the components only for Azure and Microsoft 365. Your specific IT environment might include devices, appliances, and technologies from different technology providers.
For the Azure environment, the diagram shows the components that are listed in the following table.
The diagram represents Microsoft 365 through the components listed in the following table.
OFFICE 365
Microsoft Entra ID
Workflow
To help you understand which part of your IT environment those threats are likely to attack, the architecture diagram in this article is based on a typical IT environment for an organization that has on-premises systems, a Microsoft 365 subscription, and an Azure subscription. The resources in each of these layers are services that are common to many companies. They're classified in the diagram according to the pillars of Microsoft Zero Trust: network, infrastructure, endpoint, application, data, and identity. For more information about Zero Trust, seeEmbrace proactive security with Zero Trust.
The architecture diagram includes the following layers:
On-premisesThe diagram includes some essential services such as servers (VMs), network appliances, and DNS. It includes common applications that are found in most IT environments and run on virtual machines or physical servers. It also includes various types of databases, both SQL and non-SQL. Organizations usually have a file server that shares files throughout the company. Lastly, the Active Directory Domain Service, a widespread infrastructure component, handles user credentials. The diagram includes all these components in the on-premises environment.
On-premises
The diagram includes some essential services such as servers (VMs), network appliances, and DNS. It includes common applications that are found in most IT environments and run on virtual machines or physical servers. It also includes various types of databases, both SQL and non-SQL. Organizations usually have a file server that shares files throughout the company. Lastly, the Active Directory Domain Service, a widespread infrastructure component, handles user credentials. The diagram includes all these components in the on-premises environment.
Office 365 environmentThis example environment contains traditional office applications, such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and OneNote. Depending on the type of license, it might also include other applications, such as OneDrive, Exchange, Sharepoint, and Teams. In the diagram, these are represented by an icon for Microsoft 365 (formerly Office 365) apps and an icon for Microsoft Entra ID. Users must be authenticated to obtain access to Microsoft 365 applications, and Microsoft Entra ID acts as the identity provider. Microsoft 365 authenticates users against the same type of Microsoft Entra ID that Azure uses. In most organizations, theMicrosoft Entra IDtenantis the same for both Azure and Microsoft 365.
Office 365 environment
This example environment contains traditional office applications, such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and OneNote. Depending on the type of license, it might also include other applications, such as OneDrive, Exchange, Sharepoint, and Teams. In the diagram, these are represented by an icon for Microsoft 365 (formerly Office 365) apps and an icon for Microsoft Entra ID. Users must be authenticated to obtain access to Microsoft 365 applications, and Microsoft Entra ID acts as the identity provider. Microsoft 365 authenticates users against the same type of Microsoft Entra ID that Azure uses. In most organizations, theMicrosoft Entra IDtenantis the same for both Azure and Microsoft 365.
Azure environmentThis layer represents Azure public cloud services, including virtual machines, virtual networks, platforms as services, web applications, databases, storage, identity services, and more. For more information about Azure, seeAzure documentation.
Azure environment
This layer represents Azure public cloud services, including virtual machines, virtual networks, platforms as services, web applications, databases, storage, identity services, and more. For more information about Azure, seeAzure documentation.
MITRE ATT&CK tactics and techniquesThis diagram shows the top 16 threats, according to the tactics and techniques as published by The MITRE Corporation. In red lines, you can see an example of a blended attack, which means that a malicious actor might coordinate multiple attacks simultaneously.
MITRE ATT&CK tactics and techniques
This diagram shows the top 16 threats, according to the tactics and techniques as published by The MITRE Corporation. In red lines, you can see an example of a blended attack, which means that a malicious actor might coordinate multiple attacks simultaneously.
How to use the MITRE ATT&CK framework
You can start with a simple search for the name of the threat or of the attack code on the main web page,MITRE ATT&CK®.
You can also browse threats on the tactics or techniques pages:
Enterprise tactics
Enterprise techniques
You can still useMITRE ATT&CK® Navigator, an intuitive tool provided by MITRE that helps you discover tactics, techniques, and details about threats.
Components
The example architecture in this article uses the following Azure components:
Microsoft Entra IDis a cloud-based identity and access management service. Microsoft Entra ID helps your users to access external resources, such as Microsoft 365, the Azure portal, and thousands of other SaaS applications. It also helps them access internal resources, like apps on your corporate intranet network.
Microsoft Entra IDis a cloud-based identity and access management service. Microsoft Entra ID helps your users to access external resources, such as Microsoft 365, the Azure portal, and thousands of other SaaS applications. It also helps them access internal resources, like apps on your corporate intranet network.
Azure Virtual Networkis the fundamental building block for your private network in Azure. Virtual Network enables many types of Azure resources to securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks. Virtual Network provides a virtual network that benefits from Azure's infrastructure, such as scale, availability, and isolation.
Azure Virtual Networkis the fundamental building block for your private network in Azure. Virtual Network enables many types of Azure resources to securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks. Virtual Network provides a virtual network that benefits from Azure's infrastructure, such as scale, availability, and isolation.
Azure Load Balanceris a high-performance, low-latency Layer 4 load-balancing service (inbound and outbound) for all UDP and TCP protocols. It's built to handle millions of requests per second while ensuring that your solution is highly available. Azure Load Balancer is zone-redundant, ensuring high availability across Availability Zones.
Azure Load Balanceris a high-performance, low-latency Layer 4 load-balancing service (inbound and outbound) for all UDP and TCP protocols. It's built to handle millions of requests per second while ensuring that your solution is highly available. Azure Load Balancer is zone-redundant, ensuring high availability across Availability Zones.
Virtual machinesis one of several types of on-demand, scalable computing resources that Azure offers. An Azure virtual machine (VM) gives you the flexibility of virtualization without having to buy and maintain the physical hardware that runs it.
Virtual machinesis one of several types of on-demand, scalable computing resources that Azure offers. An Azure virtual machine (VM) gives you the flexibility of virtualization without having to buy and maintain the physical hardware that runs it.
Azure Kubernetes service (AKS)is a fully managed Kubernetes service for deploying and managing containerized applications. AKS provides serverless Kubernetes, continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD), and enterprise-grade security and governance.
Azure Kubernetes service (AKS)is a fully managed Kubernetes service for deploying and managing containerized applications. AKS provides serverless Kubernetes, continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD), and enterprise-grade security and governance.
Azure Virtual Desktopis a desktop and app virtualization service that runs on the cloud to provide desktops for remote users.
Azure Virtual Desktopis a desktop and app virtualization service that runs on the cloud to provide desktops for remote users.
Web Appsis an HTTP-based service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. You can develop in your favorite language, and applications run and scale with ease on both Windows and Linux-based environments.
Web Appsis an HTTP-based service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. You can develop in your favorite language, and applications run and scale with ease on both Windows and Linux-based environments.
Azure Storageis highly available, massively scalable, durable, and secure storage for various data objects in the cloud, including object, blob, file, disk, queue, and table storage. All data written to an Azure storage account is encrypted by the service. Azure Storage provides you with fine-grained control over who has access to your data.
Azure Storageis highly available, massively scalable, durable, and secure storage for various data objects in the cloud, including object, blob, file, disk, queue, and table storage. All data written to an Azure storage account is encrypted by the service. Azure Storage provides you with fine-grained control over who has access to your data.
Azure SQL databaseis a fully managed PaaS database engine that handles most of the database management functions such as upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring. It provides these functions without user involvement. SQL Database provides a range of built-in security and compliance features to help your application meet security and compliance requirements.
Azure SQL databaseis a fully managed PaaS database engine that handles most of the database management functions such as upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring. It provides these functions without user involvement. SQL Database provides a range of built-in security and compliance features to help your application meet security and compliance requirements.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Rudnei Oliveira| Senior Azure Security Engineer
Other contributors:
Gary Moore| Programmer/Writer
Andrew Nathan| Senior Customer Engineering Manager
Next steps
This document refers to some services, technologies, and terminologies. You can find more information about them in the following resources:
MITRE ATT&CK®
ATT&CK® Navigator)
Public Preview: The MITRE ATT&CK Framework Blade in Microsoft Sentinel, a post from the Azure Cloud & AI Domain Blog
The Cyber Kill Chain®
Embrace proactive security with Zero Trust
Blended threaton Wikipedia
How cyberattacks are changing according to new Microsoft Digital Defense Reportfrom Microsoft Security Blog
Related resources
For more details about this reference architecture, see the other articles in this series:
Part 2:Build the first layer of defense with Azure Security services
Part 3:Build the second layer of defense with Microsoft Defender XDR Security services
Part 4:Integrate Azure and Microsoft Defender XDR security services