Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Improve landing zone governance
Article
2024-04-05
14 contributors
In this article
As your cloud environment evolves over time, you need to evolve your cloud governance policies and processes that apply to your landing zones. For more information on cloud governance, see theGovern methodology.
Landing zone governance best practices
The following best practices provide examples of ways to improve landing zone governance:
Naming and tagging standards: Ensure consistency in naming and tagging, which is the foundational data for establishing sound governance practices.
Naming and tagging standards: Ensure consistency in naming and tagging, which is the foundational data for establishing sound governance practices.
Track costs across workloads: Begin tracking costs in your first landing zone. Evaluate how you track costs across multiple workloads and roles.
Track costs across workloads: Begin tracking costs in your first landing zone. Evaluate how you track costs across multiple workloads and roles.
Scale with multiple subscriptions: Evaluate how this landing zone and other landing zones scale as you add more subscriptions.
Scale with multiple subscriptions: Evaluate how this landing zone and other landing zones scale as you add more subscriptions.
Organize subscriptions: Understand how to organize and manage multiple subscriptions.
Organize subscriptions: Understand how to organize and manage multiple subscriptions.
Keep your Azure landing zone up to date: Why you should update your Azure landing zone environment, and how to get more information.
Keep your Azure landing zone up to date: Why you should update your Azure landing zone environment, and how to get more information.
Next steps
The cloud environment expands with each new workload you add. To stay ahead of these requirements, cloud platform teams should periodically review the landing zone design areas.
Review landing zone design areas
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources