Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure security baseline for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Article
2025-02-25
1 contributor
In this article
This security baseline applies guidance from theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark version 1.0to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). The Microsoft cloud security benchmark provides recommendations on how you can secure your cloud solutions on Azure. The content is grouped by the security controls defined by the Microsoft cloud security benchmark and the related guidance applicable to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
You can monitor this security baseline and its recommendations using Microsoft Defender for Cloud. Azure Policy definitions will be listed in the Regulatory Compliance section of the Microsoft Defender for Cloud portal page.
When a feature has relevant Azure Policy Definitions, they are listed in this baseline to help you measure compliance with the Microsoft cloud security benchmark controls and recommendations. Some recommendations may require a paid Microsoft Defender plan to enable certain security scenarios.
Note
Featuresnot applicable to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) have been excluded. To see how Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) completely maps to the Microsoft cloud security benchmark, see thefull Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) security baseline mapping file.
Security profile
The security profile summarizes high-impact behaviors of Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), which may result in increased security considerations.
Network security
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Network security.
NS-1: Establish network segmentation boundaries
Description: Service supports deployment into customer's private Virtual Network (VNet).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Use kubenet networking with your own IP address ranges in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Description: Service network traffic respects Network Security Groups rule assignment on its subnets.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Network security groups
NS-2: Secure cloud services with network controls
Description: Service native IP filtering capability for filtering network traffic (not to be confused with NSG or Azure Firewall).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Deploy private endpoints for all Azure resources that support the Private Link feature, to establish a private access point for the resources.
Reference:Create a private Azure Kubernetes Service cluster
Description: Service supports disabling public network access either through using service-level IP ACL filtering rule (not NSG or Azure Firewall) or using a 'Disable Public Network Access' toggle switch.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use the Azure CLI to disable the Public FQDN on a private Azure Kubernetes Service cluster.
Reference:Create a private Azure Kubernetes Service cluster
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ContainerService:
Identity management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Identity management.
IM-1: Use centralized identity and authentication system
Description: Service supports using Azure AD authentication for data plane access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) as the default authentication method to control your data plane access.
Reference:AKS-managed Azure Active Directory Integration
Description: Local authentications methods supported for data plane access, such as a local username and password.Learn more.
Feature notes: Avoid the usage of local authentication methods or accounts, these should be disabled wherever possible. Instead use Azure AD to authenticate where possible.
Configuration Guidance: You can authenticate, authorize, secure, and control access to Kubernetes clusters using Kubernetes role-based access control (Kubernetes RBAC) or by using Azure Active Directory and Azure RBAC.
Reference:Access and identity options for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
IM-3: Manage application identities securely and automatically
Description: Data plane actions support authentication using managed identities.Learn more.
Feature notes: By default, when you create an AKS cluster a system-assigned managed identity is automatically created. If you are not using the Azure CLI for deployment but using your own VNet, attached Azure disk, static IP address, route table or user-assigned kubelet identity that are outside of the worker node resource group, it's recommended to use user-assigned control plane identity.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Use a managed identity in Azure Kubernetes Service
Description: Data plane supports authentication using service principals.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: There is no current Microsoft guidance for this feature configuration. Please review and determine if your organization wants to configure this security feature.
Reference:Create a Service Principal
IM-7: Restrict resource access based on conditions
Description: Data plane access can be controlled using Azure AD Conditional Access Policies.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Define the applicable conditions and criteria for Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) conditional access in the workload. Consider common use cases such as blocking or granting access from specific locations, blocking risky sign-in behavior, or requiring organization-managed devices for specific applications.
Reference:
IM-1: Use centralized identity and authentication system
Use Conditional Access with Azure AD and AKS
IM-8: Restrict the exposure of credential and secrets
Description: Data plane supports native use of Azure Key Vault for credential and secrets store.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Ensure that secrets and credentials are stored in secure locations such as Azure Key Vault, instead of embedding them into code or configuration files.
Reference:CSI Secret Store
Privileged access
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Privileged access.
PA-1: Separate and limit highly privileged/administrative users
Description: Service has the concept of a local administrative account.Learn more.
Feature notes: Avoid the usage of local authentication methods or accounts, these should be disabled wherever possible. Instead use Azure AD to authenticate where possible.
Configuration Guidance: You can authenticate, authorize, secure, and control access to Kubernetes clusters using Kubernetes role-based access control (Kubernetes RBAC) or by using Azure Active Directory and Azure RBAC.
If not required for routine administrative operations, disable or restrict any local admin accounts for only emergency use.
Reference:Access and identity options for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
PA-7: Follow just enough administration (least privilege) principle
Description: Azure Role-Based Access Control (Azure RBAC) can be used to managed access to service's data plane actions.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to manage Azure resource access through built-in role assignments. Azure RBAC roles can be assigned to users, groups, service principals, and managed identities.
Reference:Use Azure RBAC for Kubernetes Authorization
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ContainerService:
PA-8: Determine access process for cloud provider support
Description: Customer Lockbox can be used for Microsoft support access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: In support scenarios where Microsoft needs to access your data, use Customer Lockbox to review, then approve or reject each of Microsoft's data access requests.
Reference:Customer Lockbox for Microsoft Azure
Data protection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Data protection.
DP-1: Discover, classify, and label sensitive data
Description: Tools (such as Azure Purview or Azure Information Protection) can be used for data discovery and classification in the service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
DP-2: Monitor anomalies and threats targeting sensitive data
Description: Service supports DLP solution to monitor sensitive data movement (in customer's content).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: If required for compliance of data loss prevention (DLP), you can use a host based DLP solution from Azure Marketplace or a Microsoft 365 DLP solution to enforce detective and/or preventative controls to prevent data exfiltration.
Reference:Enable Microsoft Defender for Containers
DP-3: Encrypt sensitive data in transit
Description: Service supports data in-transit encryption for data plane.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Enable secure transfer in services where there is a native data in transit encryption feature built in. Enforce HTTPS on any web applications and services and ensure TLS v1.2 or later is used. Legacy versions such as SSL 3.0, TLS v1.0 should be disabled. For remote management of Virtual Machines, use SSH (for Linux) or RDP/TLS (for Windows) instead of an unencrypted protocol.
Reference:Use TLS with an ingress controller on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ContainerService:
DP-4: Enable data at rest encryption by default
Description: Data at-rest encryption using platform keys is supported, any customer content at rest is encrypted with these Microsoft managed keys.Learn more.
Feature notes: Host-based encryption is different than server-side encryption (SSE), which is used by Azure Storage. Azure-managed disks use Azure Storage to automatically encrypt data at rest when saving data. Host-based encryption uses the host of the VM to handle encryption before the data flows through Azure Storage.
Configuration Guidance: Enable data at rest encryption using platform managed (Microsoft managed) keys where not automatically configured by the service.
Reference:Host-based encryption on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
DP-5: Use customer-managed key option in data at rest encryption when required
Description: Data at-rest encryption using customer-managed keys is supported for customer content stored by the service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: If required for regulatory compliance, define the use case and service scope where encryption using customer-managed keys are needed. Enable and implement data at rest encryption using customer-managed key for those services.
Reference:Host-based encryption on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
DP-6: Use a secure key management process
Description: The service supports Azure Key Vault integration for any customer keys, secrets, or certificates.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Key Vault to create and control the life cycle of your encryption keys, including key generation, distribution, and storage. Rotate and revoke your keys in Azure Key Vault and your service based on a defined schedule or when there is a key retirement or compromise. When there is a need to use customer-managed key (CMK) in the workload, service, or application level, ensure you follow the best practices for key management: Use a key hierarchy to generate a separate data encryption key (DEK) with your key encryption key (KEK) in your key vault. Ensure keys are registered with Azure Key Vault and referenced via key IDs from the service or application. If you need to bring your own key (BYOK) to the service (such as importing HSM-protected keys from your on-premises HSMs into Azure Key Vault), follow recommended guidelines to perform initial key generation and key transfer.
Reference:Host-based encryption on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
DP-7: Use a secure certificate management process
Description: The service supports Azure Key Vault integration for any customer certificates.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Key Vault to create and control the certificate lifecycle, including creation, importing, rotation, revocation, storage, and purging of the certificate. Ensure the certificate generation follows defined standards without using any insecure properties, such as: insufficient key size, overly long validity period, insecure cryptography. Setup automatic rotation of the certificate in Azure Key Vault and the Azure service (if supported) based on a defined schedule or when there is a certificate expiration. If automatic rotation is not supported in the application, ensure they are still rotated using manual methods in Azure Key Vault and the application.
Reference:Use TLS with your own certificates with Secrets Store CSI Driver
Asset management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Asset management.
AM-2: Use only approved services
Description: Service configurations can be monitored and enforced via Azure Policy.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Microsoft Defender for Cloud to configure Azure Policy to audit and enforce configurations of your Azure resources. Use Azure Monitor to create alerts when there is a configuration deviation detected on the resources. Use Azure Policy [deny] and [deploy if not exists] effects to enforce secure configuration across Azure resources.
Reference:AKS Built-in Azure Policy
Logging and threat detection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Logging and threat detection.
LT-1: Enable threat detection capabilities
Description: Service has an offering-specific Microsoft Defender solution to monitor and alert on security issues.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Microsoft Defender for Containers is the cloud-native solution that is used to secure your containers so you can improve, monitor, and maintain the security of your clusters, containers, and their applications.
Reference:Enable Microsoft Defender for Containers
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ContainerService:
LT-4: Enable logging for security investigation
Description: Service produces resource logs that can provide enhanced service-specific metrics and logging. The customer can configure these resource logs and send them to their own data sink like a storage account or log analytics workspace.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Enable resource logs for the service. For example, Key Vault supports additional resource logs for actions that get a secret from a key vault or and Azure SQL has resource logs that track requests to a database. The content of resource logs varies by the Azure service and resource type.
Reference:Collect resource logs
Posture and vulnerability management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Posture and vulnerability management.
PV-3: Establish secure configurations for compute resources
Desription: Service supports using user-supplied container images or pre-built images from the marketplace with certain baseline configurations pre-applied.Learn more
Configuration Guidance: When using Azure Container Registry (ACR) with Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), you need to establish an authentication mechanism. Configuring the required permissions between ACR and AKS can be accomplished using the Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, and Azure portal. The AKS to ACR integration assigns the AcrPull role to the Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) managed identity associated with the agent pool in your AKS cluster.
Reference:Integrate Azure Container Registry with Azure Kubernetes Service - Azure Kubernetes Service
PV-5: Perform vulnerability assessments
Desription: Service can be scanned for vulnerability scan using Microsoft Defender for Cloud or other Microsoft Defender services embedded vulnerability assessment capability (including Microsoft Defender for server, container registry, App Service, SQL, and DNS).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: By default, when enabling the plan through the Azure portal, Microsoft Defender for Containers is configured to automatically install required components to provide the protections offered by plan, including the assignment of a default workspace.
Reference:Vulnerability management for Azure Kubernetes Service - Azure Kubernetes Service
Backup and recovery
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Backup and recovery.
BR-1: Ensure regular automated backups
Description: The service can be backed up by the Azure Backup service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Enable Azure Backup and configure the backup source (such as Azure Virtual Machines, SQL Server, HANA databases, or File Shares) on a desired frequency and with a desired retention period. For Azure Virtual Machines, you can use Azure Policy to enable automatic backups.
Reference:Back up Azure Kubernetes Service using Azure Backup
Description: Service supports its own native backup capability (if not using Azure Backup).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Next steps
See theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark overview
Learn more aboutAzure security baselines
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources