Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Customer-managed keys for DBFS root
Article
2024-05-23
6 contributors
In this article
Note
This feature is available only in thePremium plan.
For additional control of your data, you can add your own key to protect and control access to some types of data. Azure Databricks has two customer-managed key features that involve different types of data and locations. For a comparison, seeCustomer-managed keys for encryption.
By default, the storage account is encrypted with Microsoft-managed keys. After you add a customer-managed key for DBFS root, Azure Databricks uses your key to encrypt all the data in the workspace’s root Blob storage.
The workspace storage account contains your workspace’sDBFS root, which is the default location in DBFS.Databricks File System(DBFS) is a distributed file system mounted into an Azure Databricks workspace and available on Azure Databricks clusters. DBFS is implemented as a Blob storage instance in your Azure Databricks workspace’s managed resource group. The workspace storage account includesMLflow ModelsandDLTdata in your DBFS root (but not forDBFS mounts).
The workspace storage account also includes your workspace’s system data (not directly accessible to you using DBFS paths), which includes job results, Databricks SQL results, notebook revisions, and some other workspace data.
Important
This feature affects yourDBFS rootbut is not used for encrypting data on anyadditional DBFS mountssuch as DBFS mounts of additional Blob or ADLS storage. Mounts are a legacy access pattern. Databricks recommends using Unity Catalog for managing all data access. SeeConnect to cloud object storage and services using Unity Catalog.
You must use Azure Key Vault to store your customer-managed keys. You can store your keys in Azure Key Vault vaults or or Azure Key Vault Managed Hardware Security Modules (HSMs). To learn more about Azure Key Vault vaults and HSMs, seeAbout Key Vault keys. There are different instructions for using Azure Key Vault vaults and Azure Key Vault HSMs.
The Key Vault must be in the same Azure tenant as your Azure Databricks workspace.
You can enable customer-managed keys using Azure Key Vault vaults for your workspace storage account in three different ways:
Configure customer-managed keys for DBFS using the Azure portal
Configure customer-managed keys for DBFS using the Azure CLI
Configure customer-managed keys for DBFS using PowerShell
You can also enable customer-managed keys using Azure Key Vault HSMs for your workspace storage account in three different ways:
Configure HSM customer-managed keys for DBFS using the Azure portal
Configure HSM customer-managed keys for DBFS using the Azure CLI
Configure HSM customer-managed keys for DBFS using PowerShell
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources