Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Authentication and authorization for Azure Health Data Services
Article
2024-04-30
9 contributors
In this article
Authentication
Azure Health Data Services is a collection of secured managed services usingMicrosoft Entra ID, a global identity provider that supportsOAuth 2.0.
For Azure Health Data Services to access Azure resources, such as storage accounts and event hubs, you need to enable the system managed identity and grant proper permissions to the managed identity. For more information, seeAzure managed identities.
The client applications are registered in the Microsoft Entra ID and can be used to access the Azure Health Data Services. User data access controls are done in the applications or services that implement business logic.
Application roles
Authenticated users and client applications of the Azure Health Data Services must be assigned to the proper application role.
The FHIR® service in Azure Health Data Services provides these roles:
FHIR Data Reader: Read and search FHIR data.
FHIR Data Writer: Read, write, and soft delete FHIR data.
FHIR Data Exporter: Read and export ($export operator) data.
FHIR Data Importer: Read and import ($import operator) data.
FHIR Data Contributor: Perform all data plane operations.
FHIR Data Converter: Use the converter to perform data conversion.
FHIR SMART User: Allows user to read and write FHIR data according toSMART IG V1.0.0 specifications.
The DICOM® service in Azure Health Data Services provides the following roles:
DICOM Data Owner: Read, write, and delete DICOM data.
DICOM Data Read: Read DICOM data.
The MedTech service doesn't require application roles, but it does rely onAzure Event Hubs Data Receiverto retrieve data stored in the event hub of your organization's subscription.
Authorization
After being granted with proper application roles, the authenticated users and client applications can access Azure Health Data Services by obtaining a valid access token issued by Microsoft Entra ID, and perform specific operations defined by the application roles.
For the FHIR service, the access token is specific to the service or resource.
For the DICOM service, the access token is granted to thedicom.healthcareapis.azure.comresource, not a specific service.
dicom.healthcareapis.azure.com
For MedTech service, the access token isn’t required because it isn’t exposed to the users or client applications.
Steps for authorization
There are two common ways to obtain an access token, outlined in detail by the Microsoft Entra documentation:authorization code flowandclient credentials flow.
Here's how an access token for Azure Health Data Services is obtained usingauthorization code flow:
The client sends a request to the Microsoft Entra authorization endpoint.Microsoft Entra ID redirects the client to a sign-in page where the user authenticates using appropriate credentials (for example: username and password, or a two-factor authentication).Upon successful authentication, an authorization code is returned to the client.Microsoft Entra-only allows this authorization code to be returned to a registered reply URL configured in the client application registration.
The client sends a request to the Microsoft Entra authorization endpoint.Microsoft Entra ID redirects the client to a sign-in page where the user authenticates using appropriate credentials (for example: username and password, or a two-factor authentication).Upon successful authentication, an authorization code is returned to the client.Microsoft Entra-only allows this authorization code to be returned to a registered reply URL configured in the client application registration.
The client application exchanges the authorization code for an access token at the Microsoft Entra token endpoint.When the client application requests a token, the application might have to provide a client secret (which you can add during application registration).
The client application exchanges the authorization code for an access token at the Microsoft Entra token endpoint.When the client application requests a token, the application might have to provide a client secret (which you can add during application registration).
The client makes a request to the Azure Health Data Services, for example, aGETrequest to search all patients in the FHIR service. The request includes the access token in anHTTPrequest header, for example,Authorization: Bearer xxx.
The client makes a request to the Azure Health Data Services, for example, aGETrequest to search all patients in the FHIR service. The request includes the access token in anHTTPrequest header, for example,Authorization: Bearer xxx.
GET
HTTP
Authorization: Bearer xxx
Azure Health Data Services validates that the token contains appropriate claims (properties in the token).If it’s valid, it completes the request and returns data to the client.
Azure Health Data Services validates that the token contains appropriate claims (properties in the token).If it’s valid, it completes the request and returns data to the client.
In theclient credentials flow, permissions are granted directly to the application itself. When the application presents a token to a resource, the resource enforces that the application itself has authorization to perform an action since there’s no user involved in the authentication. Therefore, it’s different from the authorization code flow in these ways:
The user or the client doesn’t need to sign in interactively.
The authorization code isn’t required.
The access token is obtained directly through application permissions.
Access token
The access token is a signed,Base64encoded collection of properties (claims) that convey information about the client's identity, roles, and privileges granted to the user or client.
Azure Health Data Services typically expects aJSON Web Token. It consists of three parts:
Header
Payload (the claims)
Signature, as shown in the image. For more information, seeAzure access tokens.

Use online tools such ashttps://jwt.msto view the token content. For example, you can view the claims details.
id_tokens
/v2.0
9188040d-6c67-4c5b-b112-36a304b66dad
The access token is valid for one hour by default. You can obtain a new token or renew it using the refresh token before it expires.
To obtain an access token, you can use tools such as REST Client extension in Visual Studio Code, PowerShell, CLI, curl, and theMicrosoft Entra authentication libraries.
Encryption
When you create a new service of Azure Health Data Services, your data is encrypted usingMicrosoft-managed keysby default.
FHIR service provides encryption of data at rest when data is persisted in the data store.
DICOM service provides encryption of data at rest when imaging data including embedded metadata is persisted in the data store. When metadata is extracted and persisted in the FHIR service, it’s encrypted automatically.
MedTech service, after data mapping and normalization, persists device messages to the FHIR service, which is encrypted automatically. In cases where device messages are sent to Azure Event Hubs, which use Azure Storage to store the data, data is automatically encrypted with Azure Storage Service Encryption (Azure SSE).
Next steps
Deploy Azure Health Data Services workspace by using the Azure portal
Use Azure Active Directory B2C to grant access to the FHIR service
Note
FHIR® is a registered trademark ofHL7and is used with the permission of HL7.
DICOM®is the registered trademark of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association for its Standards publications relating to digital communications of medical information.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources