Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Validate status code
Article
2024-07-23
1 contributor
In this article
APPLIES TO: All API Management tiers
Thevalidate-status-codepolicy validates the HTTP status codes in responses against the API schema. This policy may be used to prevent leakage of backend errors, which can contain stack traces.
validate-status-code
Note
The maximum size of the API schema that can be used by this validation policy is 4 MB. If the schema exceeds this limit, validation policies will return errors on runtime. To increase it, please contactsupport.
Note
Set the policy's elements and child elements in the order provided in the policy statement. To help you configure this policy, the portal provides a guided, form-based editor. Learn more abouthow to set or edit API Management policies.
Policy statement
<validate-status-code unspecified-status-code-action="ignore | prevent | detect" errors-variable-name="variable name">
    <status-code code="HTTP status code number" action="ignore | prevent | detect" />
</validate-status-code>
<validate-status-code unspecified-status-code-action="ignore | prevent | detect" errors-variable-name="variable name">
    <status-code code="HTTP status code number" action="ignore | prevent | detect" />
</validate-status-code>
Attributes
context.Variables
Elements
status-code attributes
Actions
The content validation policies include one or more attributes that specify an action, which API Management takes when validating an entity in an API request or response against the API schema.
An action may be specified for elements that are represented in the API schema and, depending on the policy, for elements that aren't represented in the API schema.
An action may be specified for elements that are represented in the API schema and, depending on the policy, for elements that aren't represented in the API schema.
An action specified in a policy's child element overrides an action specified for its parent.
An action specified in a policy's child element overrides an action specified for its parent.
Available actions:
Usage
Policy sections:outbound, on-error
Policy scopes:global, workspace, product, API, operation
Gateways:classic, v2, consumption, self-hosted, workspace
Usage notes
This policy can only be used once in a policy section.
Logs
Details about the validation errors during policy execution are logged to the variable incontext.Variablesspecified in theerrors-variable-nameattribute in the policy's root element. When configured in apreventaction, a validation error blocks further request or response processing and is also propagated to thecontext.LastErrorproperty.
context.Variables
errors-variable-name
prevent
context.LastError
To investigate errors, use atracepolicy to log the errors from context variables toApplication Insights.
Performance implications
Adding a validation policy may affect API throughput. The following general principles apply:
The larger the API schema size, the lower the throughput will be.
The larger the payload in a request or response, the lower the throughput will be.
The size of the API schema has a larger impact on performance than the size of the payload.
Validation against an API schema that is several megabytes in size may cause request or response timeouts under some conditions. The effect is more pronounced in theConsumptionandDevelopertiers of the service.
We recommend performing load tests with your expected production workloads to assess the impact of validation policies on API throughput.
Example
<validate-status-code unspecified-status-code-action="prevent" errors-variable-name="responseStatusCodeValidation" />
<validate-status-code unspecified-status-code-action="prevent" errors-variable-name="responseStatusCodeValidation" />
Validation errors
API Management generates content validation errors  in the following format:
{
 "Name": string,
 "Type": string,
 "ValidationRule": string,
 "Details": string,
 "Action": string
}
{
 "Name": string,
 "Type": string,
 "ValidationRule": string,
 "Details": string,
 "Action": string
}
The following table lists all possible errors of the validation policies.
Details: Can be used to investigate errors. Not meant to be shared publicly.
Public response: Error returned to the client. Does not leak implementation details.
When a validation policy specifies thepreventaction and produces an error, the response from API management includes an HTTP status code: 400 when the policy is applied in the inbound section, and 502 when the policy is applied in the outbound section.
prevent
The following table lists all the possible Reason values of a validation error along with possible Message values:
Related policies
Content validation
Related content
For more information about working with policies, see:
Tutorial: Transform and protect your API
Policy referencefor a full list of policy statements and their settings
Policy expressions
Set or edit policies
Reuse policy configurations
Policy snippets repo
Azure API Management policy toolkit
Get Copilot assistance to create, explain, and troubleshoot policies
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources