Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How does Defender for Cloud collect data?
Article
2024-08-08
11 contributors
In this article
Defender for Cloud collects data from your Azure virtual machines (VMs), Virtual Machine Scale Sets, IaaS containers, and non-Azure (including on-premises) machines to monitor for security vulnerabilities and threats. Some Defender plans require monitoring components to collect data from your workloads.
Data collection is required to provide visibility into missing updates, misconfigured OS security settings, endpoint protection status, and health and threat protection. Data collection is only needed for compute resources such as VMs, Virtual Machine Scale Sets, IaaS containers, and non-Azure computers.
You can benefit from Microsoft Defender for Cloud even if you don’t provision agents. However, you'll have limited security and the capabilities listed aren't supported.
Data is collected using:
Azure Monitor Agent (AMA)
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint(MDE)
Log Analytics agent
Security components, such as theAzure Policy for Kubernetes
Why use Defender for Cloud to deploy monitoring components?
Visibility into the security of your workloads depends on the data that the monitoring components collect. The components ensure security coverage for all supported resources.
To save you the process of manually installing the extensions, Defender for Cloud reduces management overhead by installing all required extensions on existing and new machines. Defender for Cloud assigns the appropriateDeploy if not existspolicy to the workloads in the subscription. This policy type ensures the extension is provisioned on all existing and future resources of that type.
Tip
Learn more about Azure Policy effects, includingDeploy if not exists, inUnderstand Azure Policy effects.
What plans use monitoring components?
These plans use monitoring components to collect data:
Defender for ServersAzure Arc agent(For multicloud and on-premises servers)Microsoft Defender for EndpointVulnerability assessmentAzure Monitor AgentorLog Analytics agent
Azure Arc agent(For multicloud and on-premises servers)
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Vulnerability assessment
Azure Monitor AgentorLog Analytics agent
Defender for SQL servers on machinesAzure Arc agent(For multicloud and on-premises servers)Azure Monitor AgentorLog Analytics agentAutomatic SQL server discovery and registration
Azure Arc agent(For multicloud and on-premises servers)
Azure Monitor AgentorLog Analytics agent
Automatic SQL server discovery and registration
Defender for ContainersAzure Arc agent(For multicloud and on-premises servers)Defender sensor, Azure Policy for Kubernetes, Kubernetes audit log data
Azure Arc agent(For multicloud and on-premises servers)
Defender sensor, Azure Policy for Kubernetes, Kubernetes audit log data
Availability of extensions
TheAzure Preview Supplemental Termsinclude additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Azure Monitor Agent (AMA)
Learn more aboutusing the Azure Monitor Agent with Defender for Cloud.
Log Analytics agent
Defender for Cloud depends on theLog Analytics agent. Ensure your machines are running one of the supported operating systems for this agent as described on the following pages:
Log Analytics agent for Windows supported operating systems
Log Analytics agent for Linux supported operating systems
Also ensure your Log Analytics agent isproperly configured to send data to Defender for Cloud.

The following use cases explain how deployment of the Log Analytics agent works in cases when there's already an agent or extension installed.
Log Analytics agent is installed on the machine, but not as an extension (Direct agent)- If the Log Analytics agent is installed directly on the VM (not as an Azure extension), Defender for Cloud will install the Log Analytics agent extension and might upgrade the Log Analytics agent to the latest version. The installed agent will continue to report to its already configured workspaces and to the workspace configured in Defender for Cloud. (Multi-homing is supported on Windows machines.)If the Log Analytics is configured with a user workspace and not Defender for Cloud's default workspace, you'll need to install the "Security" or "SecurityCenterFree" solution on it for Defender for Cloud to start processing events from VMs and computers reporting to that workspace.For Linux machines, Agent multi-homing isn't yet supported. If an existing agent installation is detected, the Log Analytics agent won't be deployed.For existing machines on subscriptions onboarded to Defender for Cloud before 17 March 2019, when an existing agent will be detected, the Log Analytics agent extension won't be installed and the machine won't be affected. For these machines, see to the "Resolve monitoring agent health issues on your machines" recommendation to resolve the agent installation issues on these machines.
Log Analytics agent is installed on the machine, but not as an extension (Direct agent)- If the Log Analytics agent is installed directly on the VM (not as an Azure extension), Defender for Cloud will install the Log Analytics agent extension and might upgrade the Log Analytics agent to the latest version. The installed agent will continue to report to its already configured workspaces and to the workspace configured in Defender for Cloud. (Multi-homing is supported on Windows machines.)
If the Log Analytics is configured with a user workspace and not Defender for Cloud's default workspace, you'll need to install the "Security" or "SecurityCenterFree" solution on it for Defender for Cloud to start processing events from VMs and computers reporting to that workspace.
For Linux machines, Agent multi-homing isn't yet supported. If an existing agent installation is detected, the Log Analytics agent won't be deployed.
For existing machines on subscriptions onboarded to Defender for Cloud before 17 March 2019, when an existing agent will be detected, the Log Analytics agent extension won't be installed and the machine won't be affected. For these machines, see to the "Resolve monitoring agent health issues on your machines" recommendation to resolve the agent installation issues on these machines.
System Center Operations Manager agent is installed on the machine- Defender for Cloud will install the Log Analytics agent extension side by side to the existing Operations Manager. The existing Operations Manager agent will continue to report to the Operations Manager server normally. The Operations Manager agent and Log Analytics agent share common run-time libraries, which will be updated to the latest version during this process.
System Center Operations Manager agent is installed on the machine- Defender for Cloud will install the Log Analytics agent extension side by side to the existing Operations Manager. The existing Operations Manager agent will continue to report to the Operations Manager server normally. The Operations Manager agent and Log Analytics agent share common run-time libraries, which will be updated to the latest version during this process.
A pre-existing VM extension is present:When the Monitoring Agent is installed as an extension, the extension configuration allows reporting to only a single workspace. Defender for Cloud doesn't override existing connections to user workspaces. Defender for Cloud will store security data from the VM in the workspace already connected, if the "Security" or "SecurityCenterFree" solution was installed on it. Defender for Cloud might upgrade the extension version to the latest version in this process.To see to which workspace the existing extension is sending data to, run theTestCloudConnection.exetool to validate connectivity with Microsoft Defender for Cloud, as described inVerify Log Analytics agent connectivity. Alternatively, you can open Log Analytics workspaces, select a workspace, select the VM, and look at the Log Analytics agent connection.If you have an environment where the Log Analytics agent is installed on client workstations and reporting to an existing Log Analytics workspace, review the list ofoperating systems supported by Microsoft Defender for Cloudto make sure your operating system is supported.
A pre-existing VM extension is present:
When the Monitoring Agent is installed as an extension, the extension configuration allows reporting to only a single workspace. Defender for Cloud doesn't override existing connections to user workspaces. Defender for Cloud will store security data from the VM in the workspace already connected, if the "Security" or "SecurityCenterFree" solution was installed on it. Defender for Cloud might upgrade the extension version to the latest version in this process.
To see to which workspace the existing extension is sending data to, run theTestCloudConnection.exetool to validate connectivity with Microsoft Defender for Cloud, as described inVerify Log Analytics agent connectivity. Alternatively, you can open Log Analytics workspaces, select a workspace, select the VM, and look at the Log Analytics agent connection.
If you have an environment where the Log Analytics agent is installed on client workstations and reporting to an existing Log Analytics workspace, review the list ofoperating systems supported by Microsoft Defender for Cloudto make sure your operating system is supported.
Learn more aboutworking with the Log Analytics agent.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Learn more aboutMicrosoft Defender for Endpoint.
Vulnerability assessment
Guest Configuration
Learn more about Azure'sGuest Configuration extension.
Defender for Containers extensions
This table shows the availability details for the components required by the protections offered byMicrosoft Defender for Containers.
By default, the required extensions are enabled when you enable Defender for Containers from the Azure portal.
Learn more about theroles used to provision Defender for Containers extensions.
Troubleshooting
To identify monitoring agent network requirements, seeTroubleshooting monitoring agent network requirements.
To identify manual onboarding issues, seeHow to troubleshoot Operations Management Suite onboarding issues.
Next steps
This page explained what monitoring components are and how to enable them.
Learn more about:
Setting up email notificationsfor security alerts
Protecting workloads withthe Defender plans
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources