Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Deploy secure applications on Azure
Article
2025-02-25
7 contributors
In this article
In this article we present security activities and controls to consider when you deploy applications for the cloud. Security questions and concepts to consider during the release and response phases of the MicrosoftSecurity Development Lifecycle (SDL)are covered. The goal is to help you define activities and Azure services that you can use to deploy a more secure application.
The following SDL phases are covered in this article:
Release
Response
Release
The focus of the release phase is readying a project for public release. This includes planning ways to effectively perform post-release servicing tasks and address security vulnerabilities that might occur later.
Check your application’s performance before you launch
Check your application's performance before you launch it or deploy updates to production. Use Azure Load Testing to run cloud-basedload teststo find performance problems in your application, improve deployment quality, make sure that your application is always up or available, and that your application can handle traffic for your launch.
Install a web application firewall
Web applications are frequent targets of malicious attacks, such as SQL injection and cross-site scripting. Preventing these attacks in application code can be complex, requiring rigorous maintenance, patching, and monitoring across multiple layers of the application. A centralized Web Application Firewall (WAF) simplifies security management by addressing vulnerabilities at a central point rather than securing each individual web application.
TheAzure Web Application FirewallforAzure Application GatewayandAzure Front Dooroffers centralized protection against common exploits and vulnerabilities. The WAF uses rules from theOWASP core rule sets3.0 or 2.2.9 to provide robust security for your web applications.
Create an incident response plan
Preparing an incident response plan is crucial to help you address new threats that might emerge over time. Preparing an incident response plan includes identifying appropriate security emergency contacts and establishing security servicing plans for code that's inherited from other groups in the organization and for licensed third-party code.
Conduct a final security review
Deliberately reviewing all security activities that were performed helps ensure readiness for your software release or application. The final security review (FSR) usually includes examining threat models, tools outputs, and performance against the quality gates and bug bars that were defined in the requirements phase.
Certify release and archive
Certifying software before a release helps ensure that security and privacy requirements are met. Archiving all pertinent data is essential for performing post-release servicing tasks. Archiving also helps lower the long-term costs associated with sustained software engineering.
Response
The response post-release phase centers on the development team being able and available to respond appropriately to any reports of emerging software threats and vulnerabilities.
Execute the incident response plan
Being able to implement the incident response plan instituted in the release phase is essential to helping protect customers from software security or privacy vulnerabilities that emerge.
Monitor application performance
Ongoing monitoring of your application after it's deployed potentially helps you detect performance issues as well as security vulnerabilities.
Azure services that assist with application monitoring are:
Azure Application Insights
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Application Insightsis an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for web developers on multiple platforms. Use it to monitor your live web application. Application Insights automatically detects performance anomalies. It includes powerful analytics tools to help you diagnose issues and understand what users actually do with your app. It's designed to help you continuously improve performance and usability.
Microsoft Defender for Cloudhelps you prevent, detect, and respond to threats with increased visibility into (and control over) the security of your Azure resources, including web applications. Microsoft Defender for Cloud helps detect threats that might otherwise go unnoticed. It works with various security solutions.
Defender for Cloud’s Free tier offers limited security for your Azure resources only. TheDefender for Cloud Standard tierextends these capabilities to on-premises resources and other clouds.
Defender for Cloud Standard helps you:
Find and fix security vulnerabilities.
Apply access and application controls to block malicious activity.
Detect threats by using analytics and intelligence.
Respond quickly when under attack.
Next steps
In the following articles, we recommend security controls and activities that can help you design and develop secure applications.
Design secure applications
Develop secure applications
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources