Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Communication Services?
Article
2024-05-09
18 contributors
In this article
Azure Communication Services offers multichannel communication APIs for adding voice, video, chat, text messaging/SMS, email, and more to all your applications.
Azure Communication Services include REST APIs and client library SDKs, so you don't need to be an expert in the underlying technologies to add communication into your apps. Azure Communication Services is available in multipleAzure geographiesand Azure for government.
Azure Communication Services supports various communication formats:
Voice and Video Calling
Rich Text Chat
SMS
Email
Advanced Messaging for WhatsApp
You can connect custom client apps, custom services, and the publicly switched telephone network (PSTN) to your communications experience. You can acquirephone numbersdirectly through Azure Communication Services REST APIs, SDKs, or the Azure portal and use these numbers for SMS or calling applications.
You can also integrate email capabilities to your applications using production-ready email SDKs. Azure Communication Servicesdirect routingenables you to use SIP and session border controllers to connect your own PSTN carriers and bring your own phone numbers.
In addition to REST APIs,Azure Communication Services client librariesare available for various platforms and languages, including Web browsers (JavaScript), iOS (Swift), Android (Java), Windows (.NET). Take advantage of theUI libraryto accelerate development for Web, iOS, and Android apps. Azure Communication Services is identity agnostic, and you control how to identify and authenticate your customers.
Scenarios for Azure Communication Services include:
Business to Consumer (B2C).Employees and services engage external customers using voice, video, and text chat in browser and native apps. Your organization can send and receive SMS messages, oroperate an interactive voice response system (IVR)using Call Automation and a phone number you acquire through Azure. You canIntegrate with Microsoft Teamsto connect consumers to Teams meetings hosted by employees. This integration is ideal for remote healthcare, banking, and product support scenarios where employees might already be familiar with Teams.
Consumer to Consumer (C2C).Build engaging consumer-to-consumer interaction with voice, video, and rich text chat. You can build custom user interfaces on Azure Communication Services SDKs. You can also deploy complete application samples and an open-source UI toolkit to help you get started quickly.
To learn more, check out ourMicrosoft Mechanics videoand the following resources.
Common scenarios
After creating a Communication Services resource you can start building client scenarios, such as voice and video calling or text chat:
Samples
The following samples demonstrate end-to-end solutions using Azure Communication Services. Start with these samples to bootstrap your own Communication Services solutions.
Platforms and SDK libraries
To learn more about the Azure Communication Services SDKs, see the following resources. If you want to build your own clients or access the service over the Internet, REST APIs are available for most functions.
Design resources
Find comprehensive components, composites, and UX guidance in theUI Library Design Kit for Figma. This design resource is purpose-built to help design your video calling and chat experiences faster and with less effort.
Other Microsoft Communication Services
Consider using two other Microsoft communication products that aren't directly interoperable with Azure Communication Services at this time:
Microsoft Graph Cloud Communication APIsenable organizations to build communication experiences tied to Microsoft Entra users with Microsoft 365 licenses. This workflow is ideal for applications tied to Microsoft Entra ID or where you want to extend productivity experiences in Microsoft Teams. There are also APIs to build applications and customization within theTeams experience.
Microsoft Graph Cloud Communication APIsenable organizations to build communication experiences tied to Microsoft Entra users with Microsoft 365 licenses. This workflow is ideal for applications tied to Microsoft Entra ID or where you want to extend productivity experiences in Microsoft Teams. There are also APIs to build applications and customization within theTeams experience.
Azure PlayFab Partysimplifies adding low-latency chat and data communication to games. While you can power gaming chat and networking systems with Communication Services, PlayFab is a tailored option and free on Xbox.
Azure PlayFab Partysimplifies adding low-latency chat and data communication to games. While you can power gaming chat and networking systems with Communication Services, PlayFab is a tailored option and free on Xbox.
Next steps
Create a Communication Services resource
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources