Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Custom Vision?
Article
2025-03-30
5 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Custom Vision is an image recognition service that lets you build, deploy, and improve your ownimage identifiermodels. An image identifier applies labels to images according to their visual characteristics. Each label represents a classification or object. Custom Vision allows you to specify your own labels and train custom models to detect them.
You can use Custom Vision through a client library SDK, REST API, or through theCustom Vision web portal. Follow a quickstart to get started.
Quickstart (web portal)

This documentation contains the following types of articles:
Thequickstartsare step-by-step instructions that let you make calls to the service and get results in a short period of time.
Thehow-to guidescontain instructions for using the service in more specific or customized ways.
For a more structured approach, follow aTraining modulefor Custom Vision:
Classify images with the Custom Vision service
Classify endangered bird species with Custom Vision
How it works
The Custom Vision service uses a machine learning algorithm to analyze images for custom features. You submit sets of images that do and don't have the visual characteristics you're looking for. Then you label the images with your own labels (tags) at the time of submission. The algorithm trains to this data and calculates its own accuracy by testing itself on the same images. Once you've trained your model, you can test, retrain, and eventually use it in your image recognition app toclassify imagesordetect objects. You can alsoexport the modelfor offline use.
Classification and object detection
Custom Vision functionality can be divided into two features.Image classificationapplies one or more labels to an entire image.Object detectionis similar, but it returns the coordinates in the image where the applied label(s) are found.
Use case optimization
The Custom Vision service is optimized to quickly recognize major differences between images, so you can start prototyping your model with a small amount of data. It's generally a good start to use 50 images per label. However, the service isn't optimal for detecting subtle differences in images (for example, detecting minor cracks or dents in quality assurance scenarios).
Additionally, you can choose from several variations of the Custom Vision algorithm that are optimized for images with certain subject material—for example, landmarks or retail items. For more information, seeSelect a domain.
How to use Custom Vision
The Custom Vision Service is available as a set of native SDKs and through a web-based interface on theCustom Vision portal. You can create, test, and train a model through either interface or use both together.
Supported browsers
The Custom Vision portal can be used by the following web browsers:
Microsoft Edge (latest version)
Google Chrome (latest version)

Backup and disaster recovery
As a part of Azure, Custom Vision Service has components that are maintained across multiple regions. Service zones and regions are used by all of our services to provide continued service to our customers. For more information on zones and regions, seeAzure regions. If you need additional information or have any issues,contact support.
Input requirements
SeeLimits and quotasfor image input limitations.
Data privacy and security
As with all of the Azure AI services, developers using the Custom Vision service should be aware of Microsoft's policies on customer data. See theAzure AI services pageon the Microsoft Trust Center to learn more.
Data residency
Custom Vision doesn't replicate data outside of the specified region, except for one region,NorthCentralUS, where there is no local Azure Support.
NorthCentralUS
Next steps
Follow theBuild a classifierquickstart to get started using Custom Vision in the web portal.
Or, complete anSDK quickstartto implement the basic scenarios with code.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources