Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Cache for Redis?
Article
2024-11-15
18 contributors
Applies to: ✅ Azure Cache for Redis
In this article
Azure Cache for Redis provides an in-memory data store based on theRedissoftware. Redis improves the performance and scalability of an application that uses backend data stores heavily. It's able to process large volumes of application requests by keeping frequently accessed data in the server memory, which can be written to and read from quickly. Redis brings a critical low-latency and high-throughput data storage solution to modern applications.
Azure Cache for Redis offers both the Redis open-source (OSS Redis) and a commercial product from Redis Inc. (Redis Enterprise) as a managed service. It provides secure and dedicated Redis server instances and full Redis API compatibility. Microsoft operates the service, hosted on Azure, and usable by any application within or outside of Azure.
Azure Cache for Redis can be used as a distributed data or content cache, a session store, a message broker, and more. It can be deployed standalone. Or, it can be deployed along with other Azure database services, such as Azure SQL or Azure Cosmos DB.
Key scenarios
Azure Cache for Redis improves application performance by supporting common application architecture patterns. Some of the most common include the following patterns:
Redis versions
Azure Cache for Redis supports OSS Redis version 4.0.x and 6.0.x. We made the decision to skip Redis 5.0 to bring you the latest version. Previously, Azure Cache for Redis maintained a single Redis version. In the future, you can choose from a newer major release upgrade and at least one older stable version. You can choose the version that works the best for your application.
Service tiers
Azure Cache for Redis is available in these tiers:
Feature comparison
TheAzure Cache for Redis Pricingprovides a detailed comparison of each tier. The following table helps describe some of the features supported by tier:
Note
The Enterprise Flash tier currently supports only the RediSearch module (in preview) and the RedisJSON module.
Note
The Enterprise and Enterprise Flash tiers currently only support scaling up and scaling out. Scaling down and scaling in is not yet supported.
Choosing the right tier
Consider the following options when choosing an Azure Cache for Redis tier:
Memory: The Basic and Standard tiers offer 250 MB – 53 GB; the Premium tier 6 GB - 1.2 TB; the Enterprise tier 1 GB - 2 TB, and the Enterprise Flash tier 300 GB - 4.5 TB.  To create larger sized cache instances, you can usescale out. For more information, seeAzure Cache for Redis Pricing.
Performance: Caches in the Premium and Enterprise tiers are deployed on hardware that has faster processors, giving better performance compared to the Basic or Standard tier. The Enterprise tier typically has the best performance for most workloads, especially with larger cache instances. For more information, seePerformance testing.
Dedicated core for Redis server: All caches except C0 run dedicated vCPUs. The Basic, Standard, and Premium tiers run open source Redis, which by design uses only one thread for command processing. On these tiers, having more vCPUs usually improves throughput performance because Azure Cache for Redis uses other vCPUs for I/O processing or for OS processes. However, adding more vCPUs per instance might not produce linear performance increases. Scaling out usually boosts performance more than scaling up in these tiers. Both the Enterprise and Enterprise Flash tiers run on Redis Enterprise, which is able to utilize multiple vCPUs per instance, which can also significantly increase performance over other tiers. For Enterprise and Enterprise flash tiers, scaling up is recommended before scaling out.
Network performance: If you have a workload that requires high throughput, the Premium or Enterprise tier offers more bandwidth compared to Basic or Standard. Also within each tier, larger size caches have more bandwidth because of the underlying VM that hosts the cache. Higher bandwidth limits help you avoid network saturation that cause timeouts in your application. For more information, seePerformance testing.
Maximum number of client connections: The Premium and Enterprise tiers offer the maximum numbers of clients that can connect to Redis, offering higher numbers of connections for larger sized caches. Clustering increases the total amount of network bandwidth available for a clustered cache.
High availability: Azure Cache for Redis provides multiplehigh availabilityoptions. It guarantees that a Standard, Premium, or Enterprise cache is available according to ourSLA. The SLA only covers connectivity to the cache endpoints. The SLA doesn't cover protection from data loss. We recommend using the Redis data persistence feature in the Premium and Enterprise tiers to increase resiliency against data loss.
Data persistence: The Premium and Enterprise tiers allow you to persist the cache data to an Azure Storage account and a Managed Disk respectively. Underlying infrastructure issues might result in potential data loss. We recommend using the Redis data persistence feature in these tiers to increase resiliency against data loss. Azure Cache for Redis offers both RDB and AOF (preview) options. Data persistence can be enabled through Azure portal and CLI. For the Premium tier, seeHow to configure persistence for a Premium Azure Cache for Redis.
Network isolation: Azure Private Link and Virtual Network (VNet) deployments provide enhanced security and traffic isolation for your Azure Cache for Redis. VNet allows you to further restrict access through network access control policies. For more information, seeAzure Cache for Redis with Azure Private LinkandHow to configure Virtual Network support for a Premium Azure Cache for Redis.
Redis Modules: Enterprise tiers supportRediSearch,RedisBloom,RedisTimeSeries, andRedisJSON. These modules add new data types and functionality to Redis.
You can scale your cache from the Basic tier up to Premium after it's created. Scaling down to a lower tier isn't supported currently. For step-by-step scaling instructions, seeHow to Scale Azure Cache for RedisandHow to scale - Basic, Standard, and Premium tiers.
Special considerations for Enterprise tiers
The Enterprise tiers rely on Redis Enterprise, a commercial variant of Redis from Redis Inc. Customers obtain and pay for a license to this software through an Azure Marketplace offer. Azure Cache for Redis manages the license acquisition so that you don't have to do it separately. To purchase in Azure Marketplace, you must have the following prerequisites:
Your Azure subscription has a valid payment instrument. Azure credits or free MSDN subscriptions aren't supported.
Your organization allowsAzure Marketplace purchases.
If you use a private Marketplace, it must contain the Redis Inc. Enterprise offer.
Important
Azure Cache for Redis Enterprise requires standard network Load Balancers that are charged separately from cache instances themselves. Currently, these charges are absorbed by Azure Cache for Redis and not passed on to customers. This may change in the future. For more information, seeLoad Balancer pricing.
If an Enterprise cache is configured for multiple Availability Zones, data transfer charges are absorbed by Azure cache for Redis and not passed to customers. This may change in the future, where data transfer would be billed at thestandard network bandwidth rates
In addition, data persistence adds Managed Disks. The use of these resources is free during the public preview of Enterprise data persistence. This might change when the feature becomes generally available.
Availability by region
Azure Cache for Redis is continually expanding into new regions. To check the availability by region, seeProducts available by region.
Related content
Create an open-source Redis cache
Create a Redis Enterprise cache
Use Azure Cache for Redis in an ASP.NET web app
Use Azure Cache for Redis in .NET Core
Use Azure Cache for Redis in .NET Framework
Use Azure Cache for Redis in Node.js
Use Azure Cache for Redis in Java
Use Azure Cache for Redis in Python
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources