Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure operational security checklist
Article
2025-04-23
18 contributors
In this article
Deploying a cloud application on Azure is fast, easy, and cost-effective. Before deploying an application, it's useful to have a checklist. A checklist can assist you in evaluating your application against a list of essential and recommended security actions.
Introduction
Azure provides a suite of infrastructure services that you can use to deploy your applications. Azure Operational Security refers to the services, controls, and features available to users for protecting their data, applications, and other assets in Microsoft Azure.
To get the maximum benefit out of the cloud platform, we recommend that you use Azure services and follow the checklist. Organizations that invest time and resources assessing the operational readiness of their applications before launch have a higher rate of satisfaction than those that don't. When performing this work, checklists can be an invaluable mechanism to ensure that applications are evaluated consistently and holistically.
Checklist
This checklist is intended to help enterprises think through various operational security considerations as they deploy sophisticated enterprise applications on Azure. It can also be used to help you build a secure cloud migration and operation strategy for your organization.
UseAzure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)to provide user-specific that used to assign permissions to users, groups, and applications at a certain scope.
Use Management Plane Security to secure your Storage Account usingAzure role-based access control (Azure RBAC).
Data Plane Security to Securing Access to your Data usingShared Access Signatures (SAS)and Stored Access Policies.
Use Transport-Level Encryption – Using HTTPS and the encryption used bySMB (Server message block protocols) 3.0forAzure File Shares.
UseClient-side encryptionto secure data that you send to storage accounts when you require sole control of encryption keys.
UseStorage Service Encryption (SSE)to automatically encrypt data in Azure Storage, andAzure Disk Encryption for Linux VMsandAzure Disk Encryption for Windows VMsto encrypt virtual machine disk files for the OS and data disks.
Use AzureStorage Analyticsto monitor authorization type; like with Blob Storage, you can see if users have used a Shared Access Signature or the storage account keys.
UseCross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)to access storage resources from different domains.
UseMicrosoft Defender for Cloudto deploy endpoint solutions.
Add aweb application firewall (WAF)to secure web applications.
UseAzure Firewallto increase your security protections.
Apply security contact details for your Azure subscription. TheMicrosoft Security Response Center (MSRC)contacts you if it discovers that your customer data has been accessed by an unlawful or unauthorized party.
Synchronize your on-premises directory with your cloud directory using Microsoft Entra ID.
Usesingle sign-onto enable users to access their SaaS applications based on their organizational account in Azure AD.
Use thePassword Reset Registration Activityreport to monitor the users that are registering.
Enablemulti-factor authentication (MFA)for users.
Developers to use secure identity capabilities for apps likeMicrosoft Security Development Lifecycle (SDL).
Actively monitor for suspicious activities by using Microsoft Entra ID P1 or P2 anomaly reports andMicrosoft Entra ID Protection capability.
Use Malware Assessment SolutionAzure Monitor logsto report on the status of antimalware protection in your infrastructure.
UseUpdate Managementto determine the overall exposure to potential security problems, and whether or how critical these updates are for your environment.
TheMicrosoft Entra admin centerprovides visibility into the integrity and security of your organization's directory.
UseCloud Security Posture Management (CSPM)for hardening guidance that helps you efficiently and effectively improve your security.
Usealertsto be notified when threats are identified in your cloud, hybrid, or on-premises environment.
Usesecurity policies, initiatives, and recommendationsto improve your security posture.
Conclusion
Many organizations have successfully deployed and operated their cloud applications on Azure. The checklists provided highlight several checklists that are essential and help you to increase the likelihood of successful deployments and frustration-free operations. We highly recommend these operational and strategic considerations for your existing and new application deployments on Azure.
Next steps
To learn more about security in Azure, see the following articles:
Shared responsibility in the cloud.
End-to-end security in Azure.
Ransomware protection in Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources