Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Lighthouse and the Cloud Solution Provider program
Article
2025-01-09
3 contributors
In this article
If you're aCSP (Cloud Solution Provider)partner, you can already access the Azure subscriptions created for your customers through the CSP program by using the Administer On Behalf Of (AOBO) functionality. This access allows you to directly support, configure, and manage your customers' subscriptions.
WithAzure Lighthouse, you can use Azure delegated resource management along with AOBO. This helps improve security and reduces unnecessary access by enabling more granular permissions for your users. It also allows for greater efficiency and scalability, as your users can work across multiple customer subscriptions using a single login in your tenant.
Tip
To help safeguard customer resources, be sure to review and follow ourrecommended security practicesalong with thepartner security requirements.
Administer on Behalf of (AOBO)
With AOBO, any user with theAdmin Agentrole in your tenant has AOBO access to Azure subscriptions that you create through the CSP program. Any users who need access to any customers' subscriptions must be a member of this group. AOBO doesn’t allow the flexibility to create distinct groups that work with different customers, or to enable different roles for groups or users.

Azure Lighthouse
Using Azure Lighthouse, you can assign different groups to different customers or roles, as shown in the following diagram. Because users can be granted the necessary level of access throughAzure delegated resource management, you can reduce the number of users who have the Admin Agent role (and thus have full AOBO access).

Azure Lighthouse helps improve security by limiting unnecessary access to your customers' resources. It also gives you more flexibility to manage multiple customers at scale, using theAzure built-in rolethat's most appropriate for each user's duties, without granting a user more access than necessary.
To further minimize the number of permanent assignments, you cancreate eligible authorizationsto grant additional permissions to your users on a just-in-time basis.
Onboarding a subscription that you created through the CSP program follows the steps described inOnboard a customer to Azure Lighthouse. Any user who has the Admin Agent role in the customer's tenant can perform this onboarding.
Tip
Managed Service offerswith private plans aren't supported with subscriptions established through a reseller of the Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program. Instead, you can onboard these subscriptions to Azure Lighthouse byusing Azure Resource Manager templates.
Note
TheMy customerspage in the Azure portalnow includes aCloud Solution Provider (Preview)section, which displays billing info and resources for CSP customers who havesigned the Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA)and areunder the Azure plan. For more info, seeGet started with your Microsoft Partner Agreement billing account.
CSP customers may appear in this section whether or not they're also onboarded to Azure Lighthouse. If so, they also appear in theCustomerssection, as described inView and manage customers and delegated resources. Similarly, a CSP customer does not have to appear in theCloud Solution Provider (Preview)section ofMy customersin order for you to onboard them to Azure Lighthouse.
Link your partner ID to track your impact on delegated resources
Members of theMicrosoft AI Cloud Partner Programcan link a partner ID with the credentials used to manage delegated customer resources. This link allows Microsoft to identify and recognize partners who drive Azure customer success. It also allowsCSP (Cloud Solution Provider)partners to receivepartner earned credit (PEC)for customers who havesigned the Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA)and areunder the Azure plan.
To earn recognition for Azure Lighthouse activities, you'll need tolink your partner IDwith at least one user account in your managing tenant, and ensure that the linked account has access to each of your onboarded subscriptions. For simplicity, we recommend creating a service principal account in your tenant, associating it with your Partner ID, then granting it access to every customer you onboard with anAzure built-in role that is eligible for partner earned credit.
For more information, seeLink a partner ID.
Next steps
Learn aboutcross-tenant management experiences.
Learn how toonboard a subscription to Azure Lighthouse.
Learn about theCloud Solution Provider program.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources