Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
National clouds
Article
2025-01-15
23 contributors
In this article
National clouds are physically isolated instances of Azure. These regions of Azure are designed to make sure that data residency, sovereignty, and compliance requirements are honored within geographical boundaries.
Including the global Azure cloud, Microsoft Entra ID is deployed in the following national clouds:
Azure Government
Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet
Azure Germany (Closed on October 29, 2021). Learn more aboutAzure Germany migration.
The individual national clouds and the global Azure cloud are cloudinstances. Each cloud instance is separate from the others and has its own environment andendpoints. Cloud-specific endpoints include OAuth 2.0 access token and OpenID Connect ID token request endpoints, and URLs for app management and deployment.
As you develop your apps, use the endpoints for the cloud instance where you'll deploy the application.
App registration endpoints
There's a separate Azure portal for each one of the national clouds. To integrate applications with the Microsoft identity platform in a national cloud, you're required to register your application separately in each Azure portal that's specific to the environment.
Note
Users with a Microsoft Entra guest account from another national cloud can’t access Cost management + Billing features to manage EA enrollments.
The following table lists the base URLs for the Microsoft Entra endpoints used to register an application for each national cloud.
https://portal.azure.us
https://portal.azure.cn
https://portal.azure.com
Application endpoints
You can find the authentication endpoints for your application.
Sign in to theMicrosoft Entra admin centeras at least aCloud Application Administrator.
Sign in to theMicrosoft Entra admin centeras at least aCloud Application Administrator.
Browse toEntra ID>App registrations.
Browse toEntra ID>App registrations.
SelectEndpointsin the top menu.TheEndpointspage is displayed showing the authentication endpoints for the application.Use the endpoint that matches the authentication protocol you're using in conjunction with theApplication (client) IDto craft the authentication request specific to your application.
SelectEndpointsin the top menu.
TheEndpointspage is displayed showing the authentication endpoints for the application.
Use the endpoint that matches the authentication protocol you're using in conjunction with theApplication (client) IDto craft the authentication request specific to your application.

Microsoft Entra authentication endpoints
All the national clouds authenticate users separately in each environment and have separate authentication endpoints.
The following table lists the base URLs for the Microsoft Entra endpoints used to acquire tokens for each national cloud.
https://login.microsoftonline.us
https://login.partner.microsoftonline.cn
https://login.microsoftonline.com
You can form requests to the Microsoft Entra authorization or token endpoints by using the appropriate region-specific base URL. For example, for global Azure:
Authorization common endpoint ishttps://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/authorize.
https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/authorize
Token common endpoint ishttps://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/token.
https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/token
For single-tenant applications, replace "common" in the previous URLs with your tenant ID or name. An example ishttps://login.microsoftonline.com/contoso.com.
https://login.microsoftonline.com/contoso.com
Azure Germany (Microsoft Cloud Deutschland)
If you haven't migrated your application from Azure Germany, followMicrosoft Entra information for the migration from Azure Germanyto get started.
Microsoft Graph API
To learn how to call the Microsoft Graph APIs in a national cloud environment, go toMicrosoft Graph in national cloud deployments.
Some services and features in the global Azure cloud might be unavailable in other cloud instances like the national clouds.
To find out which services and features are available in a given cloud instance, seeProducts available by region.
To learn how to build an application by using the Microsoft identity platform, follow theSingle-page application (SPA) using auth code flow tutorial. Specifically, this app will sign in a user and get an access token to call the Microsoft Graph API.
Related content
Learn how to use theMicrosoft Authentication Library (MSAL) in a national cloud environment.
National cloud documentation:
Azure Government
Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet
Azure Germany (Closed on October 29, 2021)
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources