Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
About Power BI integration
Article
2025-03-12
2 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Server 2019
Power BI is a suite of business analytics tools. With Power BI, you can pull data fromAnalytics, generate reports, and customize them to meet your needs. Use Power BI to do impromptu analysis, produce beautiful reports, and publish for enterprise consumption.
The integration of Power BI with Analytics enables you to go beyond the built-in Analytics reports and dashboard widgets to generate fully custom reports.
Data connection methods
You can pull data from Analytics into Power BI in three ways, described in the following table.
Note
Open Data Protocol (OData) is an ISO/IEC approved, OASIS standard that defines a set of best practices for building and consuming REST APIs. For more information, seeOData documentation.
Query Editor
After you connect data from Analytics in Power BI, you can modify the underlying data using Power BI'sPower Query EditorandAdvanced Editor. Note the following operational constraints:
When you connect using OData queries or an OData feed, you can specify query filters, data to return, data to aggregate, and more.
When you connect using an Analytics view, you must edit the Analytics view to modify the query filter and fields that you want returned.
For examples of reports, seesample reportsprovided later in this article.
Transform data in Power BI
After you import data into Power BI, you can use the Power Query EditorTransform,Add Column, and other menu options and tools to change the data as needed. Many of thesample reportsprovided in this article give instructions on data transformations that you need to make. These instructions include some of the following operations:
Expand data columns
Pivot columns
Transform a column data type
Replace null values in column data
Create a custom field and a calculated column
For more information, seeTransform Analytics data to generate Power BI reports.
Data Analysis Expressions
Power BI supports creating new information from data already in your data model using Data Analysis Expressions (DAX). DAX provides a collection of functions, operators, and constants that you can use in a formula to calculate and return one or more values.
For an Analytics sample report that uses DAX, seeAdd a time-in-state measure to your Power BI report.
For more information, seeLearn DAX basics in Power BI Desktop.
Report visualizations, filters, sort operations
After you make any data transformations required for your report, use theVisualizationspane to craft changes in your report. You can drag column fields onto theVisualizationspane. You can then use theFilterspane to filter all or select data based on one or more fields.
To quickly get familiar with these Power BI basic features, see the following Power BI articles:
Learn about Visualization types in Power BI
Customize the Visualization pane
Take a tour of the report Filters pane
Sample reports
Several sample reports show how to generate reports from either an Analytics view or OData query.
Sample reports using Analytics view
Get active bugs report
Get a count of work items
Add a last refresh date
Filter on teams
Add a time-in-state measure to your Power BI report
Sample reports using OData queries
To get started using OData queries in Power BI reports, seeOverview of sample reports using OData queries. For specific examples, see the following articles:
Open bugs
Bug trend
Rollup
Feature progress
Work items and direct links
Release burndown
Sprint burndown
Cumulative Flow Diagram (CFD)
Lead/Cycle Time
All sample report articles provide the following sections and information:
Sample queries: The Power BI Query and raw OData query used to pull data into Power BI along with other sample queries.
Transform data in Power BI: Steps to transform the data into a reportable format.
Create the report: Steps to create a report from the data.
Power BI extensions
The following Marketplace extensions are available to support Power BI integration with Analytics.
(WIQL to OData)translates an Azure DevOps work item query into an OData query for use with Azure DevOps Analytics OData endpoints, which can be useful to as a simple OData query.
vscode-odataextension adds rich language support to Visual Studio Code for the OData query language.
Related articles
Dashboards
Sample reports and quick reference index
Dashboards, charts, reports & widgets
Power BI Desktop
Power BI documentation
OData documentation
Additional resources