Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure network round-trip latency statistics
Article
2024-06-21
11 contributors
In this article
Azure continuously monitors the latency (speed) of core areas of its network using internal monitoring tools and measurements.
How are the measurements collected?
The latency measurements are collected from Azure cloud regions worldwide, and continuously measured in 1-minute intervals by network probes. The monthly latency statistics are derived from averaging the collected samples for the month.
Round-trip latency figures
The monthly Percentile P50 round trip times between Azure regions for a 30-day window are shown in the following tabs. The latency is measured in milliseconds (ms).
The current dataset was taken onJune 20th, 2024, and it covers the 30-day period ending onJune 19th, 2024.
For readability, each table is split into tabs for groups of Azure regions. The tabs are organized by regions, and then by source region in the first column of each table. For example, theEast UStab also shows the latency from all source regions to the twoEast USregions:East USandEast US 2.
Important
Monthly latency numbers across Azure regions do not change on a regular basis. You can expect an update of these tables every 6 to 9 months. Not all public Azure regions are listed in the following tables. When new regions come online, we will update this document as soon as latency data is available.
You can perform VM-to-VM latency between regions usingtest Virtual Machinesin your Azure subscription.
North America / South America
Europe
Australia / Asia / Pacific
Middle East / Africa
Latency tables for Americas regions including US, Canada, and Brazil.
Use the following tabs to view latency statistics for each region.
Latency tables for European regions.
Use the following tabs to view latency statistics for each region.
Latency tables for Australia, Asia, and Pacific regions including and Australia, Japan, Korea, and India.
Use the following tabs to view latency statistics for each region.
Latency tables for Middle East / Africa regions including UAE, South Africa, Israel, and Qatar.
Use the following tabs to view latency statistics for each region.
West US
Central US
East US
Canada / Brazil
Australia
Japan
Western Europe
Central Europe
Norway / Sweden
UK / North Europe
Korea
India
Asia
Israel / Qatar / UAE
South Africa
Note
Round-trip latency to West India from other Azure regions is included in the table. However, West India is not a source region so roundtrips from West India are not included in the table.
Additionally, you can view all of the data in a single table.

Next steps
Learn aboutAzure regions.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources