Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
API versions in Azure AI Search
Article
2025-02-18
13 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Search rolls out feature updates regularly. Sometimes, but not always, these updates require a new version of the API to preserve backward compatibility. Publishing a new version allows you to control when and how you integrate search service updates in your code.
As a rule, the REST APIs and libraries are versioned only when necessary, since it can involve some effort to upgrade your code to use a new API version. A new version is needed only if some aspect of the API has changed in a way that breaks backward compatibility. Such changes can happen because of fixes to existing features, or because of new features that change existing API surface area.
SeeAzure SDK lifecycle and support policyfor more information about the deprecation path.
Deprecated versions
2023-07-01-previewwas deprecated on April 8, 2024 and won't be supported after July 8, 2024.
This was the first REST API that offered vector search support. Newer API versions have a different vector configuration. You shouldmigrate to a newer versionas soon as possible.

Discontinued versions
Some API versions are discontinued and are no longer documented or supported:
2015-02-28
2015-02-28-Preview
2014-07-31-Preview
2014-10-20-Preview
All SDKs are based on REST API versions. If a REST version is discontinued, SDK packages based on that version are also discontinued. All Azure AI Search .NET SDKs older than3.0.0-rcare now obsolete.
Support for the above-listed versions ended on October 15, 2020. If you have code that uses a discontinued version, you canmigrate existing codeto a newerREST API versionor to a newer Azure SDK.
REST APIs
Azure SDK for .NET
The following  table provides links to more recent SDK versions.
Azure SDK for Java
azure-search-documents
azure-resourcemanager-search
Azure SDK for JavaScript
@azure/search-documents
@azure/arm-search
Azure SDK for Python
azure-search-documents
azure-mgmt-search
All Azure SDKs
If you're looking for beta client libraries and documentation,this pagecontains links to all of the Azure SDK library packages, code, and docs.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources