Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
About VPN devices and IPsec/IKE parameters for Site-to-Site VPN Gateway connections
Article
2025-04-17
27 contributors
In this article
A VPN device is required to configure a Site-to-Site (S2S) cross-premises VPN connection using a VPN gateway. Site-to-Site connections can be used to create a hybrid solution, or whenever you want secure connections between your on-premises networks and your virtual networks. This article provides a list of validated VPN devices and a list of IPsec/IKE parameters for VPN gateways.
Items to note when viewing the tables:
There have been terminology changes for Azure VPN gateways. Only the names changed. There's no functionality change.Static Routing = PolicyBasedDynamic Routing = RouteBased
Static Routing = PolicyBased
Dynamic Routing = RouteBased
Specifications for HighPerformance VPN gateway and RouteBased VPN gateway are the same, unless otherwise noted. For example, the validated VPN devices that are compatible with RouteBased VPN gateways are also compatible with the HighPerformance VPN gateway.
Validated VPN devices and device configuration guides
In partnership with device vendors, we have validated a set of standard VPN devices. All of the devices in the device families in the following list should work with VPN gateways. These are the recommended algorithms for your device configuration.
To help configure your VPN device, refer to the links that correspond to the appropriate device family. The links to configuration instructions are provided on a best-effort basis and defaults listed in configuration guide need not contain the best cryptographic algorithms. For VPN device support, contact your device manufacturer.
Note
(*) Cisco ASA versions 8.4+ add IKEv2 support, can connect to Azure VPN gateway using custom IPsec/IKE policy with "UsePolicyBasedTrafficSelectors" option. Refer to thishow-to article.
(**) ISR 7200 Series routers only support PolicyBased VPNs.
Download VPN device configuration scripts from Azure
For certain devices, you can download configuration scripts directly from Azure. For more information and download instructions, seeDownload VPN device configuration scripts.
Nonvalidated VPN devices
If you don’t see your device listed in the Validated VPN devices table, your device still might work with a Site-to-Site connection. Contact your device manufacturer for support and configuration instructions.
Editing device configuration samples
After you download the provided VPN device configuration sample, you’ll need to replace some of the values to reflect the settings for your environment.
To edit a sample:
Open the sample using Notepad.
Search and replace all <text> strings with the values that pertain to your environment. Be sure to include < and >. When a name is specified, the name you select should be unique. If a command doesn't work, consult your device manufacturer documentation.
Default IPsec/IKE parameters
The following tables contain the combinations of algorithms and parameters Azure VPN gateways use in default configuration (Default policies). For route-based VPN gateways created using the Azure Resource Management deployment model, you can specify a custom policy on each individual connection. Refer toConfigure IPsec/IKE policyfor detailed instructions.
In the following tables:
SA = Security Association
IKE Phase 1 is also called "Main Mode"
IKE Phase 2 is also called "Quick Mode"
IKE Phase 1 (Main Mode) parameters
IKE Phase 2 (Quick Mode) parameters
Azure VPN Gateway TCP MSS Clamping
MSS clamping is done bidirectionally on the Azure VPN Gateway. The following table lists the packet size under different scenarios.
RouteBased VPN IPsec Security Association (IKE Quick Mode SA) Offers
The following table lists IPsec SA (IKE Quick Mode) Offers. Offers are listed the order of preference that the offer is presented or accepted.
You can specify IPsec ESP NULL encryption with RouteBased and HighPerformance VPN gateways. Null based encryption doesn't provide protection to data in transit, and should only be used when maximum throughput and minimum latency is required. Clients might choose to use this in VNet-to-VNet communication scenarios, or when encryption is being applied elsewhere in the solution.
For cross-premises connectivity through the Internet, use the default Azure VPN gateway settings with encryption and hashing algorithms listed in the preceding tables to ensure security of your critical communication.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources