Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Analyze changes to your Azure resources
Article
2024-06-18
3 contributors
In this article
Resources change through the course of daily use, reconfiguration, and even redeployment. While most change is by design, sometimes it can break your application. With the power of Azure Resource Graph, you can find when a resource changed due to acontrol plane operationsent to the Azure Resource Manager URL.
Change Analysis goes beyond standard monitoring solutions, alerting you to live site issues, outages, or component failures and explaining the causes behind them.
Change Analysis in the portal (preview)
Change Analysis experiences across the Azure portal are powered using the Azure Resource GraphMicrosoft.ResourceGraph/resourcesAPI. You can query this API for changes made to many of the Azure resources you interact with, including App Services (Microsoft.Web/sites) or Virtual Machines (Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines).
Microsoft.ResourceGraph/resources
Microsoft.Web/sites
Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
The Azure Resource Graph Change Analysis portal experience provides:
An onboarding-free experience, giving all subscriptions and resources access to change history.
Tenant-wide querying, rather than select subscriptions.
Change history summaries aggregated into cards at the top of the new Resource Graph Change Analysis.
More extensive filtering capabilities.
Improved accuracy and relevance ofchanged byinformation, usingChange Actorfunctionality.
Learn how to view the new Change Analysis experience in the portal.
Supported resource types
Change Analysis supports changes to resource types from the following Resource Graph tables:
resources
resources
resourcecontainers
resourcecontainers
healthresources
healthresources
You can compose and join tables to project change data any way you want.
Data retention
Changes are queryable for 14 days. For longer retention, you canintegrate your Resource Graph query with Azure Logic Appsand manually export query results to any of the Azure data stores likeLog Analyticsfor your desired retention.
Cost
You can use Azure Resource Graph Change Analysis at no extra cost.
Change Analysis in Azure Resource Graph vs. Azure Monitor
The Change Analysis experience is in the process of moving fromAzure Monitorto Azure Resource Graph. During this transition, you might see two options for Change Analysis when you search for it in the Azure portal:

1. Azure Resource Graph Change Analysis
Azure Resource Graph Change Analysis ingests data into Resource Graph for queries and to power the portal experience. Change Analysis data can be accessed using:
ThePOST Microsoft.ResourceGraph/resourcesAPI(preferred)for querying across tenants and subscriptions.
POST Microsoft.ResourceGraph/resources
The following APIs(under a specific scope, such asLISTchanges and snapshots for a specific virtual machine):GET/LIST Microsoft.Resources/ChangesGET/LIST Microsoft.Resources/Snapshots
LIST
GET/LIST Microsoft.Resources/Changes
GET/LIST Microsoft.Resources/Changes
GET/LIST Microsoft.Resources/Snapshots
GET/LIST Microsoft.Resources/Snapshots
When a resource is created, updated, or deleted via the Azure Resource Manager control plane, Resource Graph uses itsChange Actor functionalityto identify the changes.
Note
Currently, Azure Resource Graph doesn't:
Observe changes made to a resource's data plane API, such as writing data to a table in a storage account.
Support file and configuration changes over App Service.
2. Azure Monitor Change Analysis
In Azure Monitor, Change Analysis required you to query a resource provider, calledMicrosoft.ChangeAnalysis, which provided a simple API that abstracted resource change data from the Azure Resource Graph.
Microsoft.ChangeAnalysis
While this service successfully helped thousands of Azure customers, theMicrosoft.ChangeAnalysisresource provider has insurmountable limitations that prevent it from servicing the needs and scale of all Azure customers across all public and sovereign clouds.
Microsoft.ChangeAnalysis
Send feedback for more data
Submit feedback viathe Change Analysis (Preview) experiencein the Azure portal.
Next steps
Get resource changes
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources