Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Microsoft Entra Connect Sync: Understand and customize synchronization
Article
2025-04-09
8 contributors
In this article
The Microsoft Entra Connect synchronization services (Microsoft Entra Connect Sync) is a main component of Microsoft Entra Connect. It takes care of all the operations that are related to synchronize identity data between your on-premises environment and Microsoft Entra ID. Microsoft Entra Connect Sync is the successor of DirSync and Azure AD Sync.
This topic is the home forMicrosoft Entra Connect Sync(also calledsync engine) and lists links to all other topics related to it. For links to Microsoft Entra Connect, seeIntegrating your on-premises identities with Microsoft Entra ID.
The sync service consists of two components, the on-premisesMicrosoft Entra Connect Synccomponent and the service side in Microsoft Entra ID calledMicrosoft Entra Connect Sync service.
Important
Microsoft Entra Connect cloud sync is a new offering from Microsoft designed to meet and accomplish your hybrid identity goals for synchronization of users, groups, and contacts to Microsoft Entra ID. It accomplishes this by using the Microsoft Entra cloud provisioning agent instead of the Microsoft Entra Connect application. Microsoft Entra Connect cloud sync is replacing Microsoft Entra Connect Sync, which will be retired after cloud sync has full functional parity with Microsoft Entra Connect Sync. The remainder of this article is about Microsoft Entra Connect Sync, but we encourage customers to review the features and advantages of cloud sync before deploying Microsoft Entra Connect Sync.
To find out if you are already eligible for cloud sync, please verify your requirements inthis wizard.
To learn more about cloud sync, please readthis article, or watch thisshort video.

Microsoft Entra Connect Sync topics
Additional Resources
Integrating your on-premises identities with Microsoft Entra ID
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources