Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Secure score in Defender for Cloud
Article
2025-03-12
11 contributors
In this article
The secure score in Microsoft Defender for Cloud can help you to improve your cloud security posture. The secure score aggregates security findings into a single score so that you can assess, at a glance, your current security situation. The higher the score, the lower the identified risk level is.
When you turn on Defender for Cloud in a subscription, theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark (MCSB)standard is applied by default in the subscription. Assessment of resources in scope against the MCSB standard begins.
The MCSB issues recommendations based on assessment findings. Only built-in recommendations from the MCSB affect the secure score. Currently,risk prioritizationdoesn't affect the secure score.
Note
Recommendations flagged asPreviewaren't included in secure score calculations. You should still remediate these recommendations wherever possible, so that when the preview period ends, they'll contribute toward your score. Preview recommendations are marked with an icon:.
View the secure score
When you view the Defender for CloudOverviewdashboard, you can view the secure score for all of your environments. The dashboard shows the secure score as a percentage value and includes the underlying values.

The Azure mobile app shows the secure score as a percentage value. Tap it to see details that explain the score.

Explore your security posture
TheSecurity posturepage in Defender for Cloud shows the secure score for your environments overall and for each environment separately.

On this page, you can see the subscriptions, accounts, and projects that affect your overall score, information about unhealthy resources, and relevant recommendations. You can filter by environment, such as Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), and Azure DevOps. You can then drill down into each Azure subscription, AWS account, and GCP project.

Calculation of the secure score
On theRecommendationspage in Defender for Cloud, theSecure score recommendationstab shows how compliance controls within the MCSB contribute toward the overall security score.

Defender for Cloud calculates each control every eight hours for each Azure subscription or for each AWS or GCP cloud connector.
Important
Recommendations within a control are updated more often than the control itself. You might find discrepancies between the resource count on the recommendations and the resource count on the control.
Example scores for a control
The following example focuses on secure score recommendations forRemediate vulnerabilities.

This example illustrates the following fields in the recommendations.
Score calculation equations
Here's how scores are calculated.
Security control
The equation for determining the score for a security control is:

The current score for each control is a measure of the status of the resources within the control. Each individual security control contributes toward the secure score. Each resource that's affected by a recommendation within the control contributes toward the control's current score. The secure score doesn't include resources found in preview recommendations.
In the following example, the maximum score of 6 is divided by 78 because that's the sum of the healthy and unhealthy resources. So, 6 / 78 = 0.0769. Multiplying that by the number of healthy resources (4) results in the current score: 0.0769 * 4 = 0.31.

Single subscription or connector
The equation for determining the secure score for a single subscription or connector is:

In the following example, there's a single subscription or connector with all security controls available (a potential maximum score of 60 points).
The score shows 29 points out of a possible 60. The remaining 31 points are reflected in thePotential score increasefigures of the security controls.


This equation is the same equation for a connector, with just the wordsubscriptionreplaced by the wordconnector.
Multiple subscriptions and connectors
The equation for determining the secure score for multiple subscriptions and connectors is:

The combined score for multiple subscriptions and connectors includes aweightfor each subscription and connector. Defender for Cloud determines the relative weights for your subscriptions and connectors based on factors such as the number of resources. The current score for each subscription and connector is calculated in the same way as for a single subscription or connector, but then the weight is applied as shown in the equation.
When you view multiple subscriptions and connectors, the secure score evaluates all resources within all enabled policies and groups them. Grouping them shows how, together, they affect each security control's maximum score.

The combined score isnotan average. Rather, it's the evaluated posture of the status of all resources across all subscriptions and connectors. If you go to theRecommendationspage and add up the potential points available, you find that it's the difference between the current score (22) and the maximum score available (58).
Improve a secure score
The MCSB consists of a series of compliance controls. Each control is a logical group of related security recommendations and reflects your vulnerable attack surfaces.
To see how well your organization is securing each individual attack surface, review the scores for each security control. Your score improves only when you remediateallof the recommendations.
To get all the possible points for a security control, all of your resources must comply with all of the security recommendations within the security control. For example, Defender for Cloud has multiple recommendations for how to secure your management ports. You need to remediate them all to make a difference in your secure score.
You can improve your secure score by using either of these methods:
Remediate security recommendations from your recommendations list. You can remediate each recommendation manually for each resource, or use theFixoption (when available) to resolve an issue on multiple resources quickly.
Enforce or denyrecommendations to improve your score, and to make sure that your users don't create resources that negatively affect your score.
Secure score controls
The following table lists the security controls in Microsoft Defender for Cloud. For each control, you can see the maximum number of points that you can add to your secure score if you remediateallof the recommendations listed in the control, forallof your resources.
Next steps
Track your secure score
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources