Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Feature management overview
Article
2025-03-24
10 contributors
In this article
Traditionally, shipping a new application feature requires a complete redeployment of the application itself. Testing a feature often requires multiple deployments of the application. Each deployment might change the feature or expose the feature to different customers for testing.
Feature management is a software-development practice that decouples feature release from code deployment and enables quick changes to feature availability on demand. It uses a technique calledfeature flags(also known asfeature togglesandfeature switches) to dynamically administer a feature's lifecycle.
Feature management helps developers address the following problems:
Code branch management: Use feature flags to wrap new application functionality currently under development. Such functionality is "hidden" by default. You can safely ship the feature, even though it's unfinished, and it will stay dormant in production. Using this approach, calleddark deployment, you can release all your code at the end of each development cycle. You no longer need to maintain code branches across multiple development cycles because a given feature requires more than one cycle to complete.
Test in production: Use feature flags to grant early access to new functionality in production. For example, you can limit access to team members or to internal beta testers. These users will experience the full-fidelity production experience instead of a simulated or partial experience in a test environment.
Flighting: Use feature flags to incrementally roll out new functionality to end users. You can target a small percentage of your user population first and increase that percentage gradually over time.
Instant kill switch: Feature flags provide an inherent safety net for releasing new functionality. You can turn application features on and off without redeploying any code. If necessary, you can quickly disable a feature without rebuilding and redeploying your application.
Selective activation: Use feature flags to segment your users and deliver a specific set of features to each group. You might have a feature that works only on a certain web browser. You can define a feature flag so that only users of that browser can see and use the feature. By using this approach, you can easily expand the supported browser list later without having to make any code changes.
Basic concepts
Here are several new terms related to feature management:
Feature flag: A feature flag is a variable with a binary state ofonoroff. The feature flag also has an associated code block. The feature flag's state triggers whether the code block runs.
Feature manager: A feature manager is an application package that handles the life cycle of all the feature flags in an application. The feature manager also provides additional functionality, including caching feature flags and updating their states.
Filter: A filter is a rule for evaluating the state of a feature flag. Potential filters include user groups, device or browser types, geographic locations, and time windows.
An effective implementation of feature management consists of at least two components working in concert:
An application that makes use of feature flags.
A separate repository that stores the feature flags and their current states.
Using feature flags in your code
The basic pattern for implementing feature flags in an application is simple. A feature flag is a Boolean state variable controlling a conditional statement in your code:
if (featureFlag) {
    // Run the following code
}
if (featureFlag) {
    // Run the following code
}
You can set the value offeatureFlagstatically:
featureFlag
bool featureFlag = true;
bool featureFlag = true;
You can evaluate the flag's state based on certain rules:
bool featureFlag = isBetaUser();
bool featureFlag = isBetaUser();
You can extend the conditional to set application behavior for either state:
if (featureFlag) {
    // This following code will run if the featureFlag value is true
} else {
    // This following code will run if the featureFlag value is false
}
if (featureFlag) {
    // This following code will run if the featureFlag value is true
} else {
    // This following code will run if the featureFlag value is false
}
Feature flag repository
To use feature flags effectively, you need to externalize all the feature flags used in an application. You can use this approach to change feature flag states without modifying and redeploying the application itself.
Azure App Configuration provides a centralized repository for feature flags. You can use it to define different kinds of feature flags and manipulate their states quickly and confidently. You can then use the App Configuration libraries for various programming language frameworks to easily access these feature flags from your application.
Next steps
To start using feature flags with Azure App Configuration, continue to the following quickstarts specific to your application’s language or platform.
ASP.NET Core
.NET/.NET Framework
.NET background service
Java Spring
Python
JavaScript
Azure Kubernetes Service
Azure Functions
To learn more about managing feature flags in Azure App Configuration, continue to the following tutorial.
Manage feature flags in Azure App Configuration
Feature filters allow you to enable a feature flag conditionally. Azure App Configuration offers built-in feature filters that enable you to activate a feature flag only during a specific period or to a particular targeted audience of your app. For more information, continue to the following tutorial.
Enable conditional features with feature filters
Enable features on a schedule
Roll out features to targeted audiences
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources