Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Access Azure Key Vault behind a firewall
Article
2025-03-11
8 contributors
In this article
What ports, hosts, or IP addresses should I open to enable my key vault client application behind a firewall to access key vault?
To access a key vault, your key vault client application has to access multiple endpoints for various functionalities:
Authentication via Microsoft Entra ID.
Management of Azure Key Vault. This includes creating, reading, updating, deleting, and setting access policies through Azure Resource Manager.
Accessing and managing objects (keys and secrets) stored in Key Vault itself, going through the Key Vault-specific endpoint (for example,https://yourvaultname.vault.azure.net).
https://yourvaultname.vault.azure.net
Depending on your configuration and environment, there are some variations.
Ports
All traffic to a key vault for all three functions (authentication, management, and data plane access) goes over HTTPS: port 443. However, there will occasionally be HTTP (port 80) traffic for CRL. Clients that support OCSP shouldn't reach CRL, but may occasionally reach CRL endpoints listedhere.
Authentication
Key vault client applications will need to access Microsoft Entra endpoints for authentication. The endpoint used depends on the Microsoft Entra tenant configuration, the type of principal (user principal or service principal), and the type of account--for example, a Microsoft account or a work or school account.
There are other possible complex scenarios. Refer toMicrosoft Entra authentication Flow,Integrating Applications with Microsoft Entra ID, andActive Directory Authentication Protocolsfor additional information.
Key Vault management
For Key Vault management (CRUD and setting access policy), the key vault client application needs to access an Azure Resource Manager endpoint.
Key Vault operations
For all key vault object (keys and secrets) management and cryptographic operations, the key vault client needs to access the key vault endpoint. The endpoint DNS suffix varies depending on the location of your key vault. The key vault endpoint is of the formatvault-name.region-specific-dns-suffix, as described in the following table.
IP address ranges
The Key Vault service uses other Azure resources like PaaS infrastructure. So it's not possible to provide a specific range of IP addresses that Key Vault service endpoints will have at any particular time. If your firewall supports only IP address ranges, refer to  Microsoft Azure Datacenter IP Ranges documents available at:
Public
US Gov
China
Authentication and Identity (Microsoft Entra ID) is a global service and may fail over to other regions or move traffic without notice. In this scenario, all of the IP ranges listed inAuthentication and Identity IP Addressesshould be added to the firewall.
Next steps
If you have questions about Key Vault, visit theMicrosoft Q&A question page for Azure Key Vault.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources