Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Create an Azure AI Search service in the Azure portal
Article
2025-04-09
17 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Searchis an information retrieval platform for the enterprise. It supports traditional search and conversational, AI-driven search for "chat with your data" experiences across your proprietary content.
The easiest way to create a search service is through theAzure portal, which is covered in this article.

You can also use:
Azure PowerShell
Azure CLI
Management REST API
Azure Resource Manager template
Bicep
Terraform
Before you start
Some properties are fixed for the lifetime of the search service. Before you create your service, decide on the following properties:
Subscribe to Azure
Azure AI Search requires a free or pay-as-you-go Azure subscription.
To try Azure AI Search for free,start a trial subscriptionand thencreate your search service on the Free tier. Each Azure subscription can have one free search service, which is intended for short-term, non-production evaluation of the product. You can complete all of our quickstarts and most of our tutorials on the Free tier. For more information, seeTry Azure AI Search for free.
Important
To make room for other services, Microsoft might delete free services that are inactive for an extended period of time.
Find the Azure AI Search offering
Sign in to theAzure portal.
Sign in to theAzure portal.
In the upper-left corner of your dashboard, selectCreate a resource.
In the upper-left corner of your dashboard, selectCreate a resource.

Use the search box to findAzure AI Search.
Use the search box to findAzure AI Search.

Choose a subscription
If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, choose one for your search service.
If you're implementingcustomer-managed encryptionor using other features that rely on managed service identities forexternal data access, choose the same subscription you use for Azure Key Vault or other services that use managed identities.
Set a resource group
A resource group is a container that holds related resources for an Azure solution. Use it to consolidate same-solution resources, monitor costs, and check the creation date of your search service.

Over time, you can track current and projected costs for individual resources and for the overall resource group. The following screenshot shows the cost information that's available when you combine multiple resources into one group:

Name your service
Enter a name for your search service. The name is part of the endpoint against which API calls are issued:https://your-service-name.search.windows.net. For example, if you entermyservice, the endpoint becomeshttps://myservice.search.windows.net.
https://your-service-name.search.windows.net
myservice
https://myservice.search.windows.net
When naming your service, follow these rules:
Use a name that's unique within thesearch.windows.netnamespace.
search.windows.net
Use between 2 and 60 characters.
Use only lowercase letters, digits, and dashes (-).
Don't use dashes as the first two characters or the last character.
Don't use consecutive dashes.
Tip
If you have multiple search services, it's helpful to include the region in the service name. For example, when deciding how to combine or attach resources, the namemyservice-westusmight save you a trip to the Properties page.
myservice-westus
Choose a region
Important
Due to high demand, Azure AI Search is currently unavailable for new instances in some regions.
If you use multiple Azure services, putting all of them in the same region minimizes or voids bandwidth charges. There are no charges for data egress among same-region services.
In most cases, choose a region near you, unless any of the following apply:
Your nearest region isat capacity. The Azure portal has the advantage of hiding unavailable regions and tiers during resource setup.
Your nearest region isat capacity. The Azure portal has the advantage of hiding unavailable regions and tiers during resource setup.
You want to use integrated data chunking and vectorization or built-in skills for AI enrichment. Integrated operations have region requirements.
You want to use integrated data chunking and vectorization or built-in skills for AI enrichment. Integrated operations have region requirements.
You want to use Azure Storage for indexer-based indexing, or you want to store application data that isn't in an index. Debug session state, enrichment caches, and knowledge stores are Azure AI Search features that depend on Azure Storage. The region you choose for Azure Storage has implications for network security. If you're setting up a firewall, you should place the resources in separate regions. For more information, seeOutbound connections from Azure AI Search to Azure Storage.
You want to use Azure Storage for indexer-based indexing, or you want to store application data that isn't in an index. Debug session state, enrichment caches, and knowledge stores are Azure AI Search features that depend on Azure Storage. The region you choose for Azure Storage has implications for network security. If you're setting up a firewall, you should place the resources in separate regions. For more information, seeOutbound connections from Azure AI Search to Azure Storage.
Checklist for choosing a region
Is Azure AI Search available in a nearby region? Check thelist of supported regions.
Is Azure AI Search available in a nearby region? Check thelist of supported regions.
Do you have a specific tier in mind? Checkregion availability by tier.
Do you have a specific tier in mind? Checkregion availability by tier.
Do you have business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) requirements? Create two or more search services inregional pairswithinavailability zones. For example, if you're operating in North America, you might choose East US and West US, or North Central US and South Central US, for each search service.
Do you have business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) requirements? Create two or more search services inregional pairswithinavailability zones. For example, if you're operating in North America, you might choose East US and West US, or North Central US and South Central US, for each search service.
Do you needAI enrichment,integrated data chunking and vectorization, ormultimodal image search? Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, and Azure AI services multi-service must coexist in the same region.Start withAzure OpenAI regionsbecause they have the most variability. Azure OpenAI provides embedding models and chat models for RAG and integrated vectorization.CheckAzure AI Search regionsfor a match to your Azure OpenAI region. If you're using OCR, entity recognition, or other skills backed by Azure AI, theAI service integrationcolumn indicates whether Azure AI services multi-service and Azure AI Search are in the same region.Checkmultimodal embedding regionsfor multimodal APIs and image search. This API is accessed through an Azure AI services multi-service account, but in general, it's available in fewer regions than Azure AI services multi-service.
Do you needAI enrichment,integrated data chunking and vectorization, ormultimodal image search? Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, and Azure AI services multi-service must coexist in the same region.
Start withAzure OpenAI regionsbecause they have the most variability. Azure OpenAI provides embedding models and chat models for RAG and integrated vectorization.
Start withAzure OpenAI regionsbecause they have the most variability. Azure OpenAI provides embedding models and chat models for RAG and integrated vectorization.
CheckAzure AI Search regionsfor a match to your Azure OpenAI region. If you're using OCR, entity recognition, or other skills backed by Azure AI, theAI service integrationcolumn indicates whether Azure AI services multi-service and Azure AI Search are in the same region.
CheckAzure AI Search regionsfor a match to your Azure OpenAI region. If you're using OCR, entity recognition, or other skills backed by Azure AI, theAI service integrationcolumn indicates whether Azure AI services multi-service and Azure AI Search are in the same region.
Checkmultimodal embedding regionsfor multimodal APIs and image search. This API is accessed through an Azure AI services multi-service account, but in general, it's available in fewer regions than Azure AI services multi-service.
Checkmultimodal embedding regionsfor multimodal APIs and image search. This API is accessed through an Azure AI services multi-service account, but in general, it's available in fewer regions than Azure AI services multi-service.
Regions with the most overlap
Currently, the following regions offer cross-regional availability for Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, and Azure AI Vision multimodal:
Americas: West US, East US
Europe: Switzerland North, Sweden Central
This list isn't definitive, and depending on your tier, you might have more choices. Region status can also change quickly, so confirm your region choice before you create your search service.
Choose a tier
Azure AI Search is offered in multiplepricing tiers:
Free
Basic
Standard
Storage Optimized
Each tier has its owncapacity and limits, and some features are tier dependent. For information about computing characteristics, feature availability, and region availability, seeChoose a service tier for Azure AI Search.
The Basic and Standard tiers are the most common for production workloads, but many customers start with the Free tier. The billable tiers differ primarily in partition size, partition speed, and limits on the number of objects you can create.

Note
After you create your service, you can move up between Basic and Standard (S1, S2, and S3) tiers. Switching to a lower tier isn't currently supported. For more information, seeChange your pricing tier.
Services created after April 3, 2024 have larger partitions and higher vector quotas at every billable tier.
Create your service
After providing the necessary inputs, create your search service.

Your service is deployed within minutes, and you can monitor its progress with Azure notifications. Consider pinning the service to your dashboard for easy access in the future.

Configure authentication
When you create a search service, key-based authentication is the default, but it's not the most secure option. We recommend that you replace it with role-based access.
To enable role-based access for your service:
Go to your search service in theAzure portal.
Go to your search service in theAzure portal.
From the left pane, selectSettings>Keys. You can connect to your service usingAPI keys,Azure roles, or both. SelectBothuntil you assign roles, after which you can selectRole-based access control.
From the left pane, selectSettings>Keys. You can connect to your service usingAPI keys,Azure roles, or both. SelectBothuntil you assign roles, after which you can selectRole-based access control.

Scale your service
After deploying your search service, you canscale it to meet your needs. Azure AI Search offers two scaling dimensions:replicasandpartitions. Replicas allow your service to handle a higher load of search queries, while partitions allow your service to store and search through more documents.
Scaling is available only on billable tiers. On the Free tier, you can't scale your service or configure replicas and partitions.
Important
Your service must havetwo replicas for read-only SLA and three replicas for read/write SLA.
Adding resources will increase your monthly bill. Use thepricing calculatorto understand the billing implications. You can adjust resources based on load, such as increasing resources for initial indexing and decreasing them later for incremental indexing.
To scale your service:
Go to your search service in theAzure portal.
Go to your search service in theAzure portal.
From the left pane, selectSettings>Scale.
From the left pane, selectSettings>Scale.

Use the sliders to add replicas and partitions.
Use the sliders to add replicas and partitions.
When to add a second service
Most customers use a single search service at a tiersufficient for the expected load. One service can host multiple indexes, each isolated from the others, within themaximum limits of your chosen tier. In Azure AI Search, you can direct requests to only one index, reducing the chance of retrieving data from other indexes in the same service.
However, you might need a second service for the following operational requirements:
Business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR). If there's an outage, Azure AI Search won't provide instant failover.
Multitenant architecturesthat require two or more services.
Globally deployed applications that require services in each geography to minimize latency.
Note
In Azure AI Search, you can't separate indexing and querying operations, so don't create multiple services for separate workloads. An index is always queried on the service in which it was created, and you can't copy an index to another service.
A second service isn't required for high availability. You achieve high availability for queries by using two or more replicas in the same service. Because the replicas are updated sequentially, at least one is operational when a service update is rolled out. For more information about uptime, seeService Level Agreements.
Add more services to your subscription
Azure AI Search limits thenumber of search servicesyou can initially create in a subscription. If you reach your limit, you can request more quotas.
You must have Owner or Contributor permissions for the subscription to request quota. Depending on your region and data center capacity, you might be able to automatically request quota to add services to your subscription. If the request fails, reduce the number or file a support ticket. Expect a one-month turnaround for a large quota increase, such as more than 30 extra services.
To request more subscription quota:
Go to your dashboard in theAzure portal.
Go to your dashboard in theAzure portal.
Use the search box to find theQuotasservice.
Use the search box to find theQuotasservice.

On theOverviewtab, select theSearchtile.
On theOverviewtab, select theSearchtile.

Set filters to review the existing quota for search services in your current subscription. We recommend filtering by usage.
Set filters to review the existing quota for search services in your current subscription. We recommend filtering by usage.

Next to the tier and region that need more quotas, selectRequest adjustment.
Next to the tier and region that need more quotas, selectRequest adjustment.
InNew Quota Request, enter a new limit for your subscription quota. The new limit must be greater than your current limit. If regional capacity is constrained, your request won't be automatically approved, and an incident report will be generated on your behalf for investigation and resolution.
InNew Quota Request, enter a new limit for your subscription quota. The new limit must be greater than your current limit. If regional capacity is constrained, your request won't be automatically approved, and an incident report will be generated on your behalf for investigation and resolution.
Submit your request.
Submit your request.
Monitor notifications in the Azure portal for updates on the new limit. Most requests are approved within 24 hours.
Monitor notifications in the Azure portal for updates on the new limit. Most requests are approved within 24 hours.
Next steps
Now that you've deployed your search service, continue in the Azure portal to create your first index:
Quickstart: Create an Azure AI Search index in the Azure portal
Want to optimize and save on your cloud spending?
Start analyzing costs with Cost Management
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources