Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Performing disaster recovery drills - Azure SQL Database
Article
2025-02-04
8 contributors
In this article
Applies to:Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Managed Instance
It is recommended that validation of application readiness for recovery workflow is performed periodically. Verifying the application behavior and implications of data loss and/or the disruption that failover involves is a good engineering practice. It is also a requirement by most industry standards as part of business continuity certification.
Performing a disaster recovery drill consists of:
Simulating data tier outage
Recovering
Validate application integrity post recovery
Depending on how youdesigned your application for business continuity, the workflow to execute the drill can vary. This article describes the best practices for conducting a disaster recovery drill in the context of Azure SQL Database.
Geo-restore
To prevent the potential data loss when conducting a disaster recovery drill, perform the drill using a test environment by creating a copy of the production environment and using it to verify the application's failover workflow. For more information, seeGeo-restore for Azure SQL Database.
Outage simulation
To simulate the outage, you can rename the source database. This name change causes application connectivity failures.
Recovery
Perform a geo-restore of the database to a different server as described indisaster recovery guidance.
Change the application configuration to connect to the recovered database and follow theConfigure a database after recoveryguide to complete the recovery.
Validation
Complete the drill by verifying the application integrity post recovery (including connection strings, logins, basic functionality testing, or other validations part of standard application signoffs procedures).
Failover groups
For a database protected by using failover groups, the drill exercise involves planned failover to the secondary server. The planned failover ensures that the primary and the secondary databases in the failover group remain in sync when the roles are switched. Unlike the unplanned failover, this operation does not result in data loss, so the drill can be performed in the production environment.
Outage simulation
To simulate the outage, you can disable the web application or virtual machine connected to the database. This outage simulation results in the connectivity failures for the web clients.
Recovery
Make sure the application configuration in the DR region points to the former secondary, which becomes the fully accessible new primary.
Initiate aplanned failoverof the failover group from the secondary server.
Follow theConfigure a database after recoveryguide to complete the recovery.
Validation
Complete the drill by verifying the application integrity post recovery (including connectivity, basic functionality testing, or other validations required for the drill signoffs).
Planning for an outage
To learn about faster recovery options, seeActive geo-replicationandFailover groups.
Reviewdisaster recovery guidanceand thehigh availability and disaster recovery checklist.
Related content
Continuity scenarios
Automated backups
Geo-restore for Azure SQL Database
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources