Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Lsv3 sizes series
Article
2024-12-02
2 contributors
In this article
The Lsv3-series of Azure Virtual Machines (Azure VMs) features high-throughput, low latency, directly mapped local NVMe storage. These VMs run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) processor in a hyper-threaded configuration. This new processor features an all-core turbo clock speed of 3.5 GHz with Intel® Turbo Boost Technology, Intel® Advanced-Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512) and Intel® Deep Learning Boost. The Lsv3-series VMs are available in sizes from 8 to 80 vCPUs. There are 8 GiB of memory allocated per vCPU, and one 1.92TB NVMe SSD device allocated per 8 vCPUs, with up to 19.2TB (10x1.92TB) available on the L80s_v3 size.
Note
The Lsv3-series VMs are optimized to use the local disk on the node attached directly to the VM rather than using durable data disks. This method allows for greater IOPS and throughput for your workloads. The Lsv3, Lasv3, Lsv2, and Ls-series VMs don't support the creation of a host cache to increase the IOPS achievable by durable data disks.
The high throughput and IOPS of the local disk makes the Lsv3-series VMs ideal for NoSQL stores such as Apache Cassandra and MongoDB. These stores replicate data across multiple VMs to achieve persistence in the event of the failure of a single VM.
Host specifications
Feature support
Premium Storage: SupportedPremium Storage caching: Not SupportedLive Migration: Not SupportedMemory Preserving Updates: SupportedGeneration 2 VMs: SupportedGeneration 1 VMs: SupportedAccelerated Networking: SupportedEphemeral OS Disk: SupportedNested Virtualization: Supported
Sizes in series
Basics
Local storage
Remote storage
Network
Accelerators
vCPUs (Qty.) and Memory for each size
Check vCPU quotas
Local (temp) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Temp disk speed often differs between RR (Random Read) and RW (Random Write) operations. RR operations are typically faster than RW operations. The RW speed is usually slower than the RR speed on series where only the RR speed value is listed.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Temp disk: Lsv3-series VMs have a standard SCSI-based temp resource disk for use by the OS paging or swap file (D:on Windows,/dev/sdbon Linux). This disk provides 80 GiB of storage, 4,000 IOPS, and 80 MBps transfer rate for every 8 vCPUs. For example, Standard_L80s_v3 provides 800 GiB at 40000 IOPS and 800 MBPS. This configuration ensures the NVMe drives can be fully dedicated to application use. This disk is ephemeral, and all data is lost on stop or deallocation.
D:
/dev/sdb
NVMe Disks: NVMe disk throughput can go higher than the specified numbers. However, higher performance isn't guaranteed. Local NVMe disks are ephemeral. Data is lost on these disks if you stop or deallocate your VM.
NVMe Disk encryptionLsv3 VMs created or allocated on or after 1/1/2023 have their local NVMe drives encrypted by default using hardware-based encryption with a Platform-managed key, except for the regions listed below.
Remote (uncached) storage info for each size
Introduction to Azure managed disks
Azure managed disk types
Share an Azure managed disk
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
1Some sizes supportburstingto temporarily increase disk performance. Burst speeds can be maintained for up to 30 minutes at a time.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to ReadOnly or ReadWrite. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to None.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, seeVirtual machine and disk performance.
Network interface info for each size
Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Virtual machine network bandwidth
Expected network bandwidth is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, seeVirtual machine network bandwidth
Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, seeOptimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines.
To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, seeBandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP).
Accelerator (GPUs, FPGAs, etc.) info for each size
Note
No accelerators are present in this series.
Other size information
List of all available sizes:Sizes
Pricing Calculator:Pricing Calculator
Information on Disk Types:Disk Types
Next steps
Take advantage of the latest performance and features available for your workloads bychanging the size of a virtual machine.
Utilize Microsoft's in-house designed ARM processors withAzure Cobalt VMs.
Learn how toMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources