Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Support matrix for Azure VM backups
Article
2025-03-05
36 contributors
In this article
You can use theAzure Backup serviceto back up on-premises machines and workloads, along with Azure virtual machines (VMs). This article summarizes support settings and limitations when you back up Azure VMs by using Azure Backup.
Other support matrices include:
General support matrixfor Azure Backup
Support matrixfor Azure Backup servers and System Center Data Protection Manager (DPM) backup
Support matrixfor backup with the Microsoft Azure Recovery Services (MARS) agent
Supported scenarios
Here's how you can back up and restore Azure VMs by using the Azure Backup service.
Learn more aboutusing a backup serverand aboutsupport requirements.
Supported backup actions
Operating system support (Windows)
The following table summarizes the supported operating systems when you're backing up Azure VMs running Windows.
Support for Linux backup
Here's what's supported if you want to back up Linux machines.
Operating system support (Linux)
For Linux VM backups using the Linux Azure VM agent, Azure Backup supports the list ofLinux distributions endorsed by Azure. Note the following:
Agent-based VM backup doesn't support CoreOS Linux.
Agent-based VM backup doesn't support 32-bit operating systems.
Other bring-your-own Linux distributions might work as long as theAzure VM agent for Linuxis available on the VM, and as long as Python is supported.
Agent-based VM backup doesn't support a proxy-configured Linux VM if it doesn't have Python version 2.7 or later installed.
Agentless crash-consistent backupsare operating system agnostic and can be used to back up VMs whose operating system isn't supported for agent-based backups.
Azure Backup doesn't support backing up Network File System (NFS) files that are mounted from storage, or from any other NFS server, to Linux or Windows machines. It backs up only disks that are locally attached to the VM.
Support matrix for managed pre and post scripts for Linux databases
Azure Backup provides the following support for customers to author their own pre and post scripts.
Support for agentless multi-disk crash-consistent VM backup (preview)
The following table lists the supported scenarios for agentless multi-disk crash-consistent Azure Virtual Machine (VM) backup:
DSv2
Learn more about Agentless multi-disk crash-consistent VM backup.
Backup frequency and retention
Supported restore methods
Support for file-level restore
Support for VM management
The following table summarizes support for backup during VM management tasks, such as adding or replacing VM disks.
VM compute support
VM storage support
VM network support
Support for VM security and encryption
Azure Backup supports encryption for in-transit and at-rest data.
For network traffic to Azure:
The Backup traffic from servers to the Recovery Services vault is encrypted via Advanced Encryption Standard 256.
The Backup traffic from servers to the Recovery Services vault is encrypted via Advanced Encryption Standard 256.
Backup data is sent over a secure HTTPS link.
Backup data is sent over a secure HTTPS link.
Backup data is stored in the Recovery Services vault in encrypted form.
Backup data is stored in the Recovery Services vault in encrypted form.
Only you have the encryption key to unlock this data. Microsoft can't decrypt the backup data at any point.WarningAfter you set up the vault, only you have access to the encryption key. Microsoft never maintains a copy and doesn't have access to the key. If the key is misplaced, Microsoft can't recover the backup data.
Only you have the encryption key to unlock this data. Microsoft can't decrypt the backup data at any point.
Warning
After you set up the vault, only you have access to the encryption key. Microsoft never maintains a copy and doesn't have access to the key. If the key is misplaced, Microsoft can't recover the backup data.
For data security:
When you're backing up Azure VMs, you need to set up encryptionwithinthe virtual machine.
Azure Backup supports Azure Disk Encryption, which uses BitLocker on virtual machines running Windows and usesdm-crypton Linux virtual machines.
On the back end, Azure Backup usesAzure Storage service-side encryptionto help protect data at rest.
VM compression support
Azure Backup supports the compression of backup traffic. Note the following:
For Azure VMs, the VM extension reads the data directly from the Azure storage account over the storage network. It isn't necessary to compress this traffic.
If you're using DPM or MABS, you can save bandwidth by compressing the data before it's backed up.
Next steps
Back up Azure VMs.
Back up Windows machines directly, without a backup server.
Set up MABSfor backup to Azure, and then back up workloads to MABS.
Set up DPMfor backup to Azure, and then back up workloads to DPM.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources