Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Connectivity configuration in Azure Virtual Network Manager
Article
2024-10-17
5 contributors
In this article
In this article, you learn about the different types of configurations you can create and deploy using Azure Virtual Network Manager. There are two types of configurations currently available:ConnectivityandSecurity Admins.
Connectivity configuration
Connectivityconfigurations allow you to create different network topologies based on your network needs. You have two topologies to choose from, amesh networkand ahub and spoke. Connectivity between virtual networks is defined within the configuration settings.
Mesh network topology
A mesh network is a topology in which all the virtual networks in thenetwork groupare connected to each other. All virtual networks are connected and can pass traffic bi-directionally to one another.
A common use case of a mesh network topology is to allow some spoke virtual networks in a hub and spoke topology to directly communicate to each other without the traffic going through the hub virtual network. This approach reduces latency that might otherwise result from routing traffic through a router in the hub. Additionally, you can maintain security and oversight over the direct connections between spoke networks by implementing Network Security Groups rules or security administrative rules in Azure Virtual Network Manager. Traffic can also be monitored and recorded using virtual network flow logs.
By default, the mesh is a regional mesh, therefore only virtual networks in the same region can communicate with each other.Global meshcan be enabled to establish connectivity of virtual networks across all Azure regions. A virtual network can be part of up to two connected groups. Virtual network address spaces can overlap in a mesh configuration, unlike in virtual network peerings. However, traffic to the specific overlapping subnets is dropped, since routing is non-deterministic.

Connected group
When you create a mesh topology or direct connectivity in the hub and spoke topology, a new connectivity construct is created calledConnected group. Virtual networks in a connected group can communicate to each other just like if you were to connect virtual networks together manually. When you look at the effective routes for a network interface, you'll see a next hop type ofConnectedGroup. Virtual networks connected together in a connected group don't have a peering configuration listed underPeeringsfor the virtual network.
Note
If you have conflicting subnets in two or more virtual networks, resources in those subnetswon'tbe able to communicate to each other even if they're part of the same mesh network.
A virtual network can be part of up totwomesh configurations.
Hub and spoke topology
A hub-and-spoke is a network topology in which you have a virtual network selected as the hub virtual network. This virtual network gets bi-directionally peered with every spoke virtual network in the configuration. This topology is useful for when you want to isolate a virtual network but still want it to have connectivity to common resources in the hub virtual network.

In this configuration, you have settings you can enable such asdirect connectivitybetween spoke virtual networks. By default, this connectivity is only for virtual networks in the same region. To allow connectivity across different Azure regions, you need to enableGlobal mesh. You can also enableGatewaytransit to allow spoke virtual networks to use the VPN or ExpressRoute gateway deployed in the hub.
If checked, any peerings that do not match the contents of this configuration can by removed, even if these peerings were manually created after this configuration is deployed. If you remove a VNet from a network group used in the configuration, your virtual manager removes only peerings it created.
Direct connectivity
EnablingDirect connectivitycreates an overlay of aconnected groupon top of your hub and spoke topology, which contains spoke virtual networks of a given group. Direct connectivity allows a spoke VNet to talk directly to other VNets in its spoke group, but not to VNets in other spokes.
For example, you create two network groups. You enable direct connectivity for theProductionnetwork group but not for theTestnetwork group. This set up only allows virtual networks in theProductionnetwork group to communicate with one another but not the ones in theTestnetwork group.

When you look at effective routes on a VM, the route between the hub and the spoke virtual networks will have the next hop type ofVNetPeeringorGlobalVNetPeering. Routes between spokes virtual networks will show up with the next hop type ofConnectedGroup. With the example above, only theProductionnetwork group would have aConnectedGroupbecause it hasDirect connectivityenabled.
Discovering network group topology with Topology View
To assist you in understanding the topology of your network group, Azure Virtual Network Manager provides aTopology Viewthat shows the connectivity between network groups and their member virtual networks.  You can view the topology of your network group during thecreation of your connectivity configurationwith the following steps:
Navigate to theConfigurationspage and create a connectivity configuration.
On theTopologytab, select your desired topology type, add one or more network groups to the topology, and configure other desired connectivity settings.
Select thePreview Topologytab to test out the Topology View and review your configuration's current connectivity.
Complete the creation of your connectivity configuration.
You can review the current topology of a network group by selectingVisualizationunderSettingsin the network group's details page. The view shows the connectivity between the  member virtual networks in the network group.

Use cases
Enabling direct connectivity between spokes virtual networks can be helpful when you want to have an NVA or a common service in the hub virtual network but the hub doesn't need to be always accessed. But rather you need your spoke virtual networks in the network group to communicate with each other. Compared to traditional hub and spoke networks, this topology improves performance by removing the extra hop through the hub virtual network.
Like mesh, these spoke connected groups can be configured as regional or global. Global mesh is required when you want your spoke virtual networks to communicate with each other across regions. This connectivity is limited to virtual network in the same network group. To enable connectivity for virtual networks across regions, you need toEnable mesh connectivity across regionsfor the network group. Connections created between spokes virtual networks are in aConnected group.
Another option you can enable in a hub-and-spoke configuration is to use the hub as a gateway. This setting allows all virtual networks in the network group to use the VPN or ExpressRoute gateway in the hub virtual network to pass traffic. SeeGateways and on-premises connectivity.
When you deploy a hub and spoke topology from the Azure portal, theUse hub as a gatewayis enabled by default for the spoke virtual networks in the network group. Azure Virtual Network Manager attempts to create a virtual network peering connection between the hub and the spokes virtual network in the resource group. If the gateway doesn't exist in the hub virtual network, then the creation of the peering from the spoke virtual network to the hub fails. The peering connection from the hub to the spoke will still be created without an established connection.
Next steps
Deploy anAzure Virtual Network Managerinstance using Terraform.
Learn aboutconfiguration deploymentsin Azure Virtual Network Manager.
Learn how to block network traffic with asecurity admin configuration.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources