Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Verified Modules for Platform Landing Zones (ALZ)
Article
2025-01-21
12 contributors
In this article
Azure provides native services for building your Azure landing zones. Other tools can also help with this effort. One tool that customers and partners often use to deploy landing zones isTerraform by HashiCorp.
Note
Deployment of resources to application landing zones is outside the scope of this article. Decisions about the deployment method and tooling are for the team that's responsible for the application.
Terraform Azure Verified Modules for Platform Landing Zones (ALZ)provides a rapid implementation of the platform resources that you need to manageAzure landing zonesat scale by using Terraform. The solution is designed to simplify the deployment of the management group hierarchy, policies, and resources in the connectivity and management subscriptions.
Azure Verified Modules
Azure Verified Modulesis an initiative to consolidate and set the standards for what a good infrastructure as code (IaC) module looks like.
Reuse of components is a fundamental principle of IaC. Modules are instrumental in defining standards and consistency across resource deployment within and across environments.
All Azure Verified Modules are published to the officialTerraform Registryand verified by HashiCorp.
Deploying the module from the Terraform Registry provides:
An accelerated delivery of Azure landing zones in your environment.
A tested upgrade path to the latest version of the module and strict version control.
Azure landing zone accelerator
We recommend that most customers use theAzure landing zone accelerator. The accelerator is an end-to-end automation solution to deploy your Azure Platform Landing Zones (ALZ). It's based on theALZ PowerShell Moduleand uses Terraform to bootstrap the environment. Thebootstrap phaseensures that you start right with our best practices.
The followingscenariosare supported:
Multiple-region hub and spoke virtual network with Azure Firewall
Multiple-region virtual WAN with Azure Firewall
Multiple-region hub and spoke virtual network with network virtual appliance (NVA)
Multiple-region virtual WAN with NVA
Management groups for policy and management resources only
Single-region hub and spoke virtual network with Azure Firewall
Single-region virtual WAN with Azure Firewall
Bootstrap phase
Azure DevOps and GitHub are both supported as source control. If you use another provider or don't want to use source control, you can deploy to the local filesystem.
The bootstrap deploys your DevOps resources (Azure DevOps or GitHub), including repositories, pipelines, and the identities that are required to run the pipelines. Several Azure resources that host the Terraform state file and the supporting compute and networking resources support this.
For more information, seePhase 2 - Bootstrapin theUser guide.
Deploy the platform
After the bootstrap, you have a continuous integration and continuous delivery pipeline that deploys the scenario that you chose. If you select the local filesystem option, you can runterraform applymanually.
terraform apply
Based on the scenario and configuration, a set of resources are deployed, including:
Governance resources, such as management groups and Azure Policy.
Governance resources, such as management groups and Azure Policy.
Centralized logging and monitoring resources to support the platform.
Centralized logging and monitoring resources to support the platform.
Connectivity resources with your selected architecture, whether it's a virtual WAN or a hub and spoke virtual network topology.
Connectivity resources with your selected architecture, whether it's a virtual WAN or a hub and spoke virtual network topology.
Configuration
The Azure landing zone accelerator is highly configurable. For more information, seeUser guide.
Advanced scenarios
If you're an advanced user, you can compose your own architecture from the Azure Verified Modules modules. For more information, seeGetting started.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources