Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
How to secure your Azure Active Directory B2C identity solution
Article
2023-05-10
5 contributors
In this article
This article provides the best practices in securing your Azure Active Directory B2C (Azure AD B2C) solution. To build your identity solution using Azure AD B2C involves many components that you should consider protecting and monitoring.
Depending on your solution, you have one or more of the following components in scope:
Azure AD B2C authentication endpoints
Azure AD B2C user flows or custom policiesSign inSign up
Sign in
Sign up
Email One-time-password (OTP)
Multifactor authentication controls
External REST APIs
You must protect and monitor all these components to ensure your users can sign in to applications without disruption. Follow the guidance in this article to protect your solution from bot attacks, fraudulent account creation, international revenue share fraud (ISRF), and password spray.
How to secure your solution
Your identity solution uses multiple components to provide a smooth sign in experience. The following table shows protection mechanisms we recommend for each component.
/authorize
/token
/.well-known/openid-configuration
/discovery/v2.0/keys
Protection mechanisms
The following table provides an overview of the different protection mechanisms you can use to protect different components.
Configure Cloudflare WAF
Configure Akamai WAF
You can add or remove custom domains in a self-service fashion
Streamlined certificate management experience
You can bring your own certificate and get alert for certificate expiry with good rotation experience viaAzure Key Vault
AFD-provisioned certificate for quicker provisioning and autorotation on expiry
Enable custom domains for Azure Active Directory B2C
Integrate with identity verification and proofing partners
Configure Microsoft Dynamics 365 Fraud Protection
Configure with Arkose Labs platform
Mitigate fraudulent MFA usage
Investigate risk with Identity Protection
Add Conditional Access policies to user flows
Enable multifactor authentication
Monitor using Azure Monitor
Use reports & alerts
Monitor for fraudulent MFA usage
Collect Azure AD B2C logs with Application Insights
Configure security analytics for Azure AD B2C data with Microsoft Sentinel

Protecting your REST APIs
Azure AD B2C allows you to connect to external systems by using theAPI Connectors, or theREST API technical profile. You need to protect these interfaces. You can prevent malicious requests to your REST APIs by protecting the Azure AD B2C authentication endpoints. You can protect these endpoints with a WAF and AFD.
Scenario 1: How to secure your sign-in experience
After you create a sign-in experience, or user flow, you'll need to protect specific components of your flow from malicious activity. For example, if your sign in flow involves the following, then the table shows the components you need to protect, and associated protection technique:
Local account email and password authentication
Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication using SMS or phone call
/authorize
/token
/.well-known/openid-configuration
/discovery/v2.0/keys

Scenario 2: How to secure your sign-up experience
After you create a sign-up experience, or user flow, you need to protect specific components of your flow from malicious activity. If your sign in flow involves the following, then the table shows the components you need to protect, and associated protection technique:
Local account email and password sign-up
Email verification using email OTP
Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication using SMS or phone call
/authorize
/token
/.well-known/openid-configuration
/discovery/v2.0/keys
In this scenario, the use of the WAF and AFD protection mechanisms protects both the Azure AD B2C authentication endpoints and the Email OTP components.

Next steps
Configure a Web application firewallto protect Azure AD B2C authentication endpoints.
Configure Fraud prevention with Dynamicsto protect your authentication experiences.
Investigate risk with Identity Protection in Azure AD B2Cto discover, investigate, and remediate identity-based risks.
Securing phone-based multifactor authenticationto protect your phone based multifactor authentication.
Configure Identity Protectionto protect your sign in experience.
Configure Monitoring and alertingto be alerted to any threats.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources