Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Set up Azure CLI for Azure HPC Cache
Article
2025-03-07
8 contributors
In this article
Follow these steps to prepare your environment before using Azure CLI to create or manage an Azure HPC Cache.
Prerequisites
Use the Bash environment inAzure Cloud Shell. For more information, seeGet started with Azure Cloud Shell.
Use the Bash environment inAzure Cloud Shell. For more information, seeGet started with Azure Cloud Shell.

If you prefer to run CLI reference commands locally,installthe Azure CLI. If you're running on Windows or macOS, consider running Azure CLI in a Docker container. For more information, seeHow to run the Azure CLI in a Docker container.If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeAuthenticate to Azure using Azure CLI.When you're prompted, install the Azure CLI extension on first use. For more information about extensions, seeUse and manage extensions with the Azure CLI.Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
If you prefer to run CLI reference commands locally,installthe Azure CLI. If you're running on Windows or macOS, consider running Azure CLI in a Docker container. For more information, seeHow to run the Azure CLI in a Docker container.
If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeAuthenticate to Azure using Azure CLI.
If you're using a local installation, sign in to the Azure CLI by using theaz logincommand. To finish the authentication process, follow the steps displayed in your terminal. For other sign-in options, seeAuthenticate to Azure using Azure CLI.
When you're prompted, install the Azure CLI extension on first use. For more information about extensions, seeUse and manage extensions with the Azure CLI.
When you're prompted, install the Azure CLI extension on first use. For more information about extensions, seeUse and manage extensions with the Azure CLI.
Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
Runaz versionto find the version and dependent libraries that are installed. To upgrade to the latest version, runaz upgrade.
Azure HPC Cache requires version 2.7 or later of the Azure CLI. If using Azure Cloud Shell, the latest version is already installed.
Set default resource group (optional)
Most of the hpc-cache commands require you to pass the cache's resource group. You can set the default resource group by usingaz config.
Next steps
After installing the Azure CLI extension and logging in, you can use Azure CLI to create and manage Azure HPC Cache systems.
Create an Azure HPC Cache
Azure CLI hpc-cache documentation
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources