Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Steps to assign an Azure role
Article
2024-09-30
4 contributors
In this article
Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)is the authorization system you use to manage access to Azure resources. To grant access, you assign roles to users, groups, service principals, or managed identities at a particular scope. This article describes the high-level steps to assign Azure roles using theAzure portal,Azure PowerShell,Azure CLI, or theREST API.
Step 1: Determine who needs access
You first need to determine who needs access. You can assign a role to a user, group, service principal, or managed identity. This is also called asecurity principal.

User - An individual who has a profile in Microsoft Entra ID. You can also assign roles to users in other tenants. For information about users in other organizations, seeMicrosoft Entra B2B.
Group - A set of users created in Microsoft Entra ID. When you assign a role to a group, all users within that group have that role.
Service principal - A security identity used by applications or services to access specific Azure resources. You can think of it as auser identity(username and password or certificate) for an application.
Managed identity - An identity in Microsoft Entra ID that is automatically managed by Azure. You typically usemanaged identitieswhen developing cloud applications to manage the credentials for authenticating to Azure services.
Step 2: Select the appropriate role
Permissions are grouped together into arole definition. It's typically just called arole. You can select from a list of several built-in roles. If the built-in roles don't meet the specific needs of your organization, you can create your own custom roles.

Roles are organized into job function roles and privileged administrator roles.
Job function roles
Job function roles allow management of specific Azure resources. For example, theVirtual Machine Contributorrole allows a user to create and manage virtual machines. To select the appropriate job function role, use these steps:
Begin with the comprehensive article,Azure built-in roles. The table at the top of the article is an index into the details later in the article.
Begin with the comprehensive article,Azure built-in roles. The table at the top of the article is an index into the details later in the article.
In that article, navigate to the service category (such as compute, storage, and databases) for the resource to which you want to grant permissions. The easiest way to find what your looking for is typically to search the page for a relevant keyword, like "blob", "virtual machine", and so on.
In that article, navigate to the service category (such as compute, storage, and databases) for the resource to which you want to grant permissions. The easiest way to find what your looking for is typically to search the page for a relevant keyword, like "blob", "virtual machine", and so on.
Review the roles listed for the service category and identify the specific actions you need. Again, always start with the most restrictive role.For example, if a security principal needs to read blobs in an Azure storage account, but doesn't need write access, then chooseStorage Blob Data Readerrather thanStorage Blob Data Contributor(and definitely not the administrator-levelStorage Blob Data Ownerrole). You can always update the role assignments later as needed.
Review the roles listed for the service category and identify the specific actions you need. Again, always start with the most restrictive role.
For example, if a security principal needs to read blobs in an Azure storage account, but doesn't need write access, then chooseStorage Blob Data Readerrather thanStorage Blob Data Contributor(and definitely not the administrator-levelStorage Blob Data Ownerrole). You can always update the role assignments later as needed.
If you don't find a suitable role, you can create acustom role.
If you don't find a suitable role, you can create acustom role.
Privileged administrator roles
Privileged administrator roles are roles that grant privileged administrator access, such as the ability to manage Azure resources or assign roles to other users. The following roles are considered privileged and apply to all resource types.
Grants full access to manage all resources
Assign roles in Azure RBAC
Grants full access to manage all resources
Can't assign roles in Azure RBAC
Can't manage assignments in Azure Blueprints or share image galleries
Manage all the reservations in a tenant
Assign roles in Azure RBAC for reservations
Manage user access to Azure resources
Assign roles in Azure RBAC
Assign themselves or others the Owner role
Can't manage access using other ways, such as Azure Policy
Manage user access to Azure resources
Assign roles in Azure RBAC
Assign themselves or others the Owner role
For best practices when using privileged administrator role assignments, seeBest practices for Azure RBAC. For more information, seePrivileged administrator role definition.
Step 3: Identify the needed scope
Scopeis the set of resources that the access applies to. In Azure, you can specify a scope at four levels:management group, subscription,resource group, and resource. Scopes are structured in a parent-child relationship. Each level of hierarchy makes the scope more specific. You can assign roles at any of these levels of scope. The level you select determines how widely the role is applied. Lower levels inherit role permissions from higher levels.

When you assign a role at a parent scope, those permissions are inherited to the child scopes. For example:
If you assign theReaderrole to a user at the management group scope, that user can read everything in all subscriptions in the management group.
If you assign theBilling Readerrole to a group at the subscription scope, the members of that group can read billing data for every resource group and resource in the subscription.
If you assign theContributorrole to an application at the resource group scope, it can manage resources of all types in that resource group, but not other resource groups in the subscription.
It's a best practice to grant security principals the least privilege they need to perform their job. Avoid assigning broader roles at broader scopes even if it initially seems more convenient. By limiting roles and scopes, you limit what resources are at risk if the security principal is ever compromised. For more information, seeUnderstand scope.
Step 4: Check your prerequisites
To assign roles, you must be signed in with a user that is assigned a role that has role assignments write permission, such asRole Based Access Control Administratorat the scope you are trying to assign the role. Similarly, to remove a role assignment, you must have the role assignments delete permission.
Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write
Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write
Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/delete
Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/delete
If your user account doesn't have permission to assign a role within your subscription, you see an error message that your account "does not have authorization to perform action 'Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write'." In this case, contact the administrators of your subscription as they can assign the permissions on your behalf.
If you are using a service principal to assign roles, you might get the error "Insufficient privileges to complete the operation." This error is likely because Azure is attempting to look up the assignee identity in Microsoft Entra ID and the service principal cannot read Microsoft Entra ID by default. In this case, you need to grant the service principal permissions to read data in the directory. Alternatively, if you are using Azure CLI, you can create the role assignment by using the assignee object ID to skip the Microsoft Entra lookup. For more information, seeTroubleshoot Azure RBAC.
Step 5: Assign role
Once you know the security principal, role, and scope, you can assign the role. You can assign roles using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, Azure SDKs, or REST APIs.
You can have up to4000role assignments in each subscription. This limit includes role assignments at the subscription, resource group, and resource scopes.Eligible role assignmentsand role assignments scheduled in the future do not count towards this limit. You can have up to500role assignments in each management group. For more information, seeTroubleshoot Azure RBAC limits.
Check out the following articles for detailed steps for how to assign roles.
Assign Azure roles using the Azure portal
Assign Azure roles using Azure PowerShell
Assign Azure roles using Azure CLI
Assign Azure roles using the REST API
Next steps
Tutorial: Grant a user access to Azure resources using the Azure portal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources