Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
CentOS End-Of-Life guidance
Article
2024-08-22
9 contributors
In this article
As of June 30, 2024, Red Hat has sunsetted CentOS and replaced it with CentOS Stream. For more information, seeTransforming the development experience within CentOS
CentOS 7 and 8 are the final releases of CentOS Linux. The end-of-life dates for CentOS 7 and 8 were:
CentOS 8 - December 31, 2021
CentOS 7 - June 30, 2024
Impact for CentOS users
Workloads running on these CentOS versions need to migrate to alternate platforms to continue to get updates and security patches.
Migration options
There are several options for CentOS customers to move to a supported OS. The decision of where and how to migrate depends on:
Whether you need to retain compatibility with CentOS / Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
Prefer a community supported distribution vs. commercial distribution (for example Red Hat Enterprise Linux or RHEL)
The configuration and image source(s) of your CentOS estate in Azure
If you need to keep CentOS compatibility, migration to Red Hat Enterprise Linux, a commercial distribution, is a low-risk option. There are also several choices such as Oracle Linux, Alma Linux, Rocky Linux, etc.
If your workload runs on many distributions, you may want to consider moving to another distribution, either community-based or commercial.
While you evaluate your end state, consider whether performing an in-place conversion (many distributions give tools for this purpose) is preferable vs. taking this opportunity to start with a clean slate and a new VM / OS / image. Microsoft recommends starting with a fresh VM / OS.
There are also several companies offering extended support for CentOS 7, which may give you more time to migrate.
SUSE:Liberty Linux: Proven enterprise support for RHEL & CentOS | SUSE
SUSE:Liberty Linux: Proven enterprise support for RHEL & CentOS | SUSE
OpenLogic:Enterprise Linux Support
OpenLogic:Enterprise Linux Support
TuxCare:Extended Lifecycle Support
TuxCare:Extended Lifecycle Support
CIQ:CIQ Bridge - Extending the life of CentOS 7
CIQ:CIQ Bridge - Extending the life of CentOS 7
See theEndorsed Distributionpage for details on Azure endorsed distributions and images.
CentOS compatible distributions
Caution
If you perform an in-place major version update following a migration (e.g. CentOS 7 -> RHEL 7 -> RHEL 8) there will be a disconnection between the data plane and thecontrol planeof the virtual machine (VM). Azure capabilities such asAuto guest patching,Auto OS image upgrades,Hotpatching, andAzure Update Managerwon't be available. To utilize these features, it's recommended to create a new VM using your preferred operating system instead of performing an in-place upgrade.
For a full list of endorsed Linux Distributions on Azure see:Linux distributions endorsed on Azure - Azure Virtual Machines | Microsoft Learn
For details on Red Hat & Microsoft Integrated Support see: Microsoft and Red Hat Partner and Deliver Integrated Support, a Unique Offering in the IT World | Microsoft Learn
Alternate distributions
Migrating your systems and workloads
Stay CentOS compatible
If you stay CentOS compatible and have picked a distribution, you need to decide whether you want to perform an in-place conversion or start with a fresh VM (redeploy).
Many CentOS compatible distributions have conversions utilities that assess the system and perform the replacement of binaries and update the content source.
If you move to a commercial distribution, you may need a valid subscription / license to perform the conversion.
As you consider whether to convert your VM in-place vs redeploying, the way you created your VM in Azure becomes important.
Converting a custom VM
If you created your own VM for use in Azure, no software billing information is present in your VM. You're likely OK to convert it in place (after a backup and any necessary prerequisites and updates).
OpenLogic by Perforce Azure Marketplace offer:
CentOS-based
This is the official / endorsed CentOS image in Azure, and doesn't have software billing information associated. It's a candidate for an in-place conversion (after a backup and any necessary prerequisites and updates).
Other Azure Marketplace offers
There's a multitude of CentOS based offers from various publishers available in the Azure Marketplace. They range from simple OS only offers to various bundled offers with more software, desktop versions and configurations for specific cases (for example CIS hardened images).
Some of these offers do have a price associated, and can include services such as end customer support etc.
If you convert a system with a price associated, you'll continue to pay the original price after conversion. Even if you have a separate subscription or license for the converted system, you may be double paying.
Check with your image provider whether they recommend / support an in-place upgrade or have further guidance.
Changing distributions
If you're moving to another distribution, you need to redeploy your Virtual Machines and workloads. Make sure to look at theMicrosoft Cloud Adoption Frameworkfor Azure for guidance, best practices and templates to deploy your solution in Azure.
Modernize
This end-of-life moment may also be an opportunity for you to consider modernizing your workload, move to a PaaS, SaaS or containerized solution.
What is Application Modernization? | Microsoft Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources