Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure App Configuration?
Article
2025-03-24
10 contributors
In this article
Azure App Configuration provides a service to centrally manage application settings and feature flags. Modern programs, especially programs running in a cloud, generally have many components that are distributed in nature. Spreading configuration settings across these components can lead to hard-to-troubleshoot errors during an application deployment. Use App Configuration to store all the settings for your application and secure their accesses in one place.
Why use App Configuration?
Cloud-based applications often run on multiple virtual machines or containers in multiple regions and use multiple external services. Creating a robust and scalable application in a distributed environment presents a significant challenge.
Various programming methodologies help developers deal with the increasing complexity of building applications. For example, theTwelve-Factor Appdescribes many well-tested architectural patterns and best practices for use with cloud applications. One key recommendation from this guide is to separate configuration from code. An application’s configuration settings should be kept external to its executable and read in from its runtime environment or an external source.
While any application can make use of App Configuration, the following examples are the types of application that benefit from the use of it:
Microservices based on Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Service Fabric, or other containerized apps deployed in one or more geographies
Serverless apps, which include Azure Functions or other event-driven stateless compute apps
Continuous deployment pipeline
App Configuration offers the following benefits:
A fully managed service that can be set up in minutes
Flexible key representations and mappings
Tagging with labels
Point-in-time replay of settings
Dedicated UI for feature flag management
Comparison of two sets of configurations on custom-defined dimensions
Enhanced security through Azure-managed identities
Encryption of sensitive information at rest and in transit
Native integration with popular frameworks
App Configuration complementsAzure Key Vault, which is used to store application secrets. App Configuration makes it easier to implement the following scenarios:
Centralize management and distribution of hierarchical configuration data for different environments and geographies
Dynamically change application settings without the need to redeploy or restart an application
Control feature availability in real-time
Use App Configuration
The easiest way to add an App Configuration store to your application is through a client library provided by Microsoft. The following methods are available to connect with your application, depending on your chosen language and framework.
Next steps
Best practices
FAQ
Create an App Configuration store
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources