Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Compare message routing and Event Grid for IoT Hub
Article
2023-03-16
10 contributors
In this article
Azure IoT Hub provides the capability to stream data from your connected devices and integrate that data into your business applications. IoT Hub offers two methods for integrating IoT events into other Azure services or business applications. This article discusses the two features that provide this capability, so that you can choose which option is best for your scenario.
Note
Some of the features mentioned in this article, like cloud-to-device messaging, device twins, and device management, are only available in the standard tier of IoT Hub. For more information about the basic and standard/free IoT Hub tiers, seeChoose the right IoT Hub tier and size for your solution.
IoT Hub message routing: This IoT Hub feature enables users to route device-to-cloud messages to service endpoints like Azure Storage containers, Event Hubs, Service Bus queues, and Service Bus topics. Routing also provides a querying capability to filter the data before routing it to the endpoints. In addition to device telemetry data, you can alsoroute non-telemetry eventsand use them to trigger actions.
IoT Hub integration with Event Grid: Azure Event Grid is a fully managed event routing service that uses a publish-subscribe model. IoT Hub and Event Grid work together tointegrate IoT Hub events into Azure and non-Azure services, in near-real time. IoT Hub publishes bothdevice eventsand telemetry events.
Differences
While both message routing and Event Grid enable alert configuration, there are some key differences between the two. Refer to the following table for details:
Event Hubs
Azure Blob Storage
Service Bus queue
Service Bus topics
Cosmos DB
Azure Functions
Azure Automation
Event Hubs
Logic Apps
Storage Blob
Custom Topics
Queue Storage
Power Automate
Third-party services through WebHooks
Similarities
IoT Hub message routing and Event Grid have similarities too, some of which are detailed in the following table:
How to choose
IoT Hub message routing and the IoT Hub integration with Event Grid perform different actions to achieve similar results. They both take information from your IoT Hub solution and pass it on so that other services can react. So how do you decide which one to use? Consider the following questions to help guide your decision:
What kind of data are you sending to the endpoints?Use IoT Hub message routing when you have to send telemetry data to other services. Message routing also enables querying message application and system properties, message body, device twin tags, and device twin properties.The IoT Hub integration with Event Grid works with events that occur in the IoT Hub service. These IoT Hub events include telemetry data, device created, deleted, connected, and disconnected. When subscribing to telemetry events, you can apply additional filters on the data to filter on message properties, message body and device twin in your IoT Hub, before publishing to Event Grid. Seehow to filter events.
What kind of data are you sending to the endpoints?
Use IoT Hub message routing when you have to send telemetry data to other services. Message routing also enables querying message application and system properties, message body, device twin tags, and device twin properties.
The IoT Hub integration with Event Grid works with events that occur in the IoT Hub service. These IoT Hub events include telemetry data, device created, deleted, connected, and disconnected. When subscribing to telemetry events, you can apply additional filters on the data to filter on message properties, message body and device twin in your IoT Hub, before publishing to Event Grid. Seehow to filter events.
What endpoints need to receive this information?IoT Hub message routing supports limited number of unique endpoints and endpoint types, but you can build connectors to reroute the data and events to additional endpoints. For a complete list of supported endpoints, see the table in the previous section.The IoT Hub integration with Event Grid supports 500 endpoints per IoT Hub and a larger variety of endpoint types. It natively integrates with Azure Functions, Logic Apps, Storage and Service Bus queues, and also works with webhooks to extend sending data outside of the Azure service ecosystem and into third-party business applications.
What endpoints need to receive this information?
IoT Hub message routing supports limited number of unique endpoints and endpoint types, but you can build connectors to reroute the data and events to additional endpoints. For a complete list of supported endpoints, see the table in the previous section.
The IoT Hub integration with Event Grid supports 500 endpoints per IoT Hub and a larger variety of endpoint types. It natively integrates with Azure Functions, Logic Apps, Storage and Service Bus queues, and also works with webhooks to extend sending data outside of the Azure service ecosystem and into third-party business applications.
Does it matter if your data arrives in order?IoT Hub message routing maintains the order in which messages are sent, so that they arrive in the same way.Event Grid does not guarantee that endpoints receive events in the same order that they occurred. For those cases in which absolute order of messages is significant and/or in which a consumer needs a trustworthy unique identifier for messages, we recommend using message routing.
Does it matter if your data arrives in order?
IoT Hub message routing maintains the order in which messages are sent, so that they arrive in the same way.
Event Grid does not guarantee that endpoints receive events in the same order that they occurred. For those cases in which absolute order of messages is significant and/or in which a consumer needs a trustworthy unique identifier for messages, we recommend using message routing.
Next steps
Learn more aboutIoT Hub message routingand theIoT Hub endpoints.
Try out the Event Grid integration bySending email notifications about Azure IoT Hub events using Logic Apps.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources