Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure for AWS professionals
Article
2025-02-11
32 contributors
In this article
This article introduces a series of articles that help Amazon Web Services (AWS) experts understand the basics of the Microsoft Azure platform, accounts, and services. This article describes key similarities and differences between AWS and Azure. Whether you're designing a multicloud solution that uses both Azure and AWS or migrating from AWS to Azure, you can compare the capabilities of Azure and AWS services in all categories.
The articles in this series describe:
How to think about Azure capabilities from an AWS perspective.
How Azure organizes accounts and resources.
How core Azure services differ from AWS services and how they're similar.
Use the table of contents to select the technology areas that are relevant to your workload. These articles compare services that are roughly comparable. Not every AWS service or Azure service is listed, and not every matched service has exact feature-for-feature parity.
Similarities and differences
AWS and Azure build on a core set of AI, compute, storage, database, and networking services. In many cases, the platforms provide similar products and services. For example, both AWS and Azure can use Linux distributions and open-source software technologies. Both platforms support building highly available solutions on Windows or Linux hosts.
The capabilities of both platforms are similar, but the resources that provide those capabilities are often organized differently. Azure and AWS built their capabilities independently over time, so the platforms have important implementation and design differences. For example, AWS relies heavily on its accounts to serve as a logical boundary for tasks like applying permissions or tracking spend. Azure uses subscriptions, which are similar to AWS accounts. Azure also uses resource groups to logically group and manage resources at a more granular level.
The services that each platform provide don't always clearly correspond. Sometimes, only one of the platforms provides a particular service.
Primary topics
Read the following articles to learn about Azure services and how they map to the services that you're already familiar with in AWS. The following articles go into more detail about how Azure works in these specific areas:
Accounts and subscriptions on Azure and AWS
Compute services on Azure and AWS
Data and AI
Relational database technologies on Azure and AWS
Messaging services on Azure and AWS
Networking on Azure and AWS
Regions and zones on Azure and AWS
Resource management on Azure and AWS
Multicloud security and identity with Azure and AWS
Storage on Azure and AWS
Other services
The preceding list doesn't include all services. The following tables describe some of the services that aren't included. They map each AWS service to its corresponding Azure service and provide a brief description of the service.
Marketplace
Time series databases and analytics
DevOps and application monitoring
Internet of Things (IoT)
Management and governance
Authentication and authorization
Encryption
Firewalls
Security
Web applications
End-user computing
Miscellaneous
Next step
Azure and AWS accounts and subscriptions
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources