Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Understanding Azure Data Factory pricing through examples
Article
2025-02-13
17 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Data FactoryAzure Synapse Analytics
Tip
Try outData Factory in Microsoft Fabric, an all-in-one analytics solution for enterprises.Microsoft Fabriccovers everything from data movement to data science, real-time analytics, business intelligence, and reporting. Learn how tostart a new trialfor free!
This article explains and demonstrates the Azure Data Factory pricing model with detailed examples.  You can also refer to theAzure Pricing Calculatorfor more specific scenarios and to estimate your future costs to use the service.  To understand how to estimate pricing for any scenario, not just the examples here, refer to the articlePlan and manage costs for Azure Data Factory.
For more details about pricing in Azure Data Factory, see theData Pipeline Pricing and FAQ.
Pricing examples
The prices used in the following examples are hypothetical and don't intend to imply exact actual pricing.  Read/write and monitoring costs aren't shown since they're typically negligible and won't impact overall costs significantly.  Activity runs are also rounded to the nearest 1000 in pricing calculator estimates.
Copy data from AWS S3 to Azure Blob storage hourly for 30 days
Copy data and transform with Azure Databricks hourly for 30 days
Copy data and transform with dynamic parameters hourly for 30 days
Run SSIS packages on Azure-SSIS integration runtime
Using mapping data flow debug for a normal workday
Transform data in blob store with mapping data flows
Data integration in Azure Data Factory Managed VNET
Pricing example: Get delta data from SAP ECC via SAP CDC in mapping data flows
Related content
Now that you understand the pricing for Azure Data Factory, you can get started!
Create a data factory by using the Azure Data Factory UI
Introduction to Azure Data Factory
Visual authoring in Azure Data Factory
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources