Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Migrate a manually registered Azure VPN Client to the Microsoft-registered client for Microsoft Entra ID User VPN connections
Article
2025-02-11
1 contributor
In this article
This article helps you migrate from a manually registered Azure VPN Client to the Microsoft-registered Azure VPN Client for point-to-site (P2S) Microsoft Entra ID authentication. The Microsoft-registered Azure VPN client uses a different Audience value. When you update an Audience value, you must make the change on both the P2S VPN gateway, and on any previously configured VPN clients. For more information about Audience values, seeAbout point-to-site VPN - Microsoft Entra ID authentication.
The following table shows the available supported Audience values.
c632b3df-fb67-4d84-bdcf-b95ad541b5c8
41b23e61-6c1e-4545-b367-cd054e0ed4b4
51bb15d4-3a4f-4ebf-9dca-40096fe32426
538ee9e6-310a-468d-afef-ea97365856a9
49f817b6-84ae-4cc0-928c-73f27289b3aa
<custom-app-id>
This article doesn't apply tocustom Audiencevalue configurations. To modify a custom audience app ID, seeCreate or modify a custom audience app ID for P2S VPN Microsoft Entra ID authentication.
Workflow
The standard workflow is:
Update P2S gateway settings.
Generate and download new VPN client configuration files.
Update the VPN client either by importing the client configuration package, or (optionally) updating the settings on the already configured VPN client.
Remove the old Azure VPN Client from the tenant. This step isn't required in order to make a P2S connection using the new Audience value, but it's good practice.
Update P2S gateway settings
When you update audience values on an existing gateway, you incur fewer than 5 minutes of downtime.
Go to the virtual network gateway. In the left pane, clickPoint-to-site configuration, thenConfigure nowto open the Point-to-site configuration page.
Go to the virtual network gateway. In the left pane, clickPoint-to-site configuration, thenConfigure nowto open the Point-to-site configuration page.

Change theAudiencevalue to:c632b3df-fb67-4d84-bdcf-b95ad541b5c8.
Change theAudiencevalue to:c632b3df-fb67-4d84-bdcf-b95ad541b5c8.
Leave the other settings the same, unless you have changed tenants and need to change the tenant IDs. If you update the Issuer field, take care to include the trailing slash at the end. For more information about each of the fields, seeMicrosoft Entra IDvalues.
Leave the other settings the same, unless you have changed tenants and need to change the tenant IDs. If you update the Issuer field, take care to include the trailing slash at the end. For more information about each of the fields, seeMicrosoft Entra IDvalues.
Once you finish configuring settings, clickSaveat the top of the page.
Once you finish configuring settings, clickSaveat the top of the page.
The new settings save to the P2S gateway and the gateway updates. This takes about 5 minutes to complete.
The new settings save to the P2S gateway and the gateway updates. This takes about 5 minutes to complete.
Update VPN client settings
When you make a change to a P2S gateway, you typically need to generate and download a new VPN client profile configuration package. This package contains the updated settings from the P2S VPN gateway. If you're configuring new Azure VPN Clients, you must generate this configuration package.
However, when you update only the Audience or tenant values, you have a couple of options when reconfiguring already deployed Azure VPN Clients.
If the Azure VPN Client is already configured to connect to this P2S gateway, you canmanually updatethe VPN client.
If the Azure VPN Client is already configured to connect to this P2S gateway, you canmanually updatethe VPN client.
If you've updated multiple values on the P2S gateway, or you want easily update the VPN clients by importing the new values, you can generate and download a new P2S VPNclient profile configuration packageand import it to each client.
If you've updated multiple values on the P2S gateway, or you want easily update the VPN clients by importing the new values, you can generate and download a new P2S VPNclient profile configuration packageand import it to each client.
Update an Azure VPN Client
These steps help you update the Azure VPN Client manually, without using the profile configuration package.
Launch the Azure VPN Client app.
Select the VPN connection profile that you want to update.
Click..., thenConfigure.
Update theAudiencefield to the new Audience value. This value must match the P2S gateway value to which this client connects.
If you also updated the Tenant ID values, change them on the client. These values must match the P2S gateway values.
ClickSaveto save the settings.
Update using a profile configuration package
If you want to use the VPN client profile configuration files to configure your Azure VPN Client, you can generate a profile configuration package that contains the new P2S gateway settings.
At the top of thePoint-to-site configurationpage, clickDownload VPN client. It takes a few minutes for the client configuration package to generate.
At the top of thePoint-to-site configurationpage, clickDownload VPN client. It takes a few minutes for the client configuration package to generate.
Your browser indicates that a client configuration zip file is available. It's named the same name as your gateway.
Your browser indicates that a client configuration zip file is available. It's named the same name as your gateway.
Extract the downloaded zip file.
Extract the downloaded zip file.
Browse to the unzipped "AzureVPN" folder.
Browse to the unzipped "AzureVPN" folder.
Make a note of the location of the “azurevpnconfig.xml” file. The azurevpnconfig.xml contains the setting for the VPN connection. You can also distribute this file to all the users that need to connect via e-mail or other means. The user will need valid Microsoft Entra ID credentials to connect successfully.
Make a note of the location of the “azurevpnconfig.xml” file. The azurevpnconfig.xml contains the setting for the VPN connection. You can also distribute this file to all the users that need to connect via e-mail or other means. The user will need valid Microsoft Entra ID credentials to connect successfully.
Next steps
For more information about configuring the Azure VPN Client for Microsoft Entra ID authentication, see the following articles:
Azure VPN Client for Linux
Azure VPN Client for Windows
Azure VPN Client for macOS
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources