Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Run a self-hosted agent behind a web proxy
Article
2024-03-25
9 contributors
In this article
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
When your self-hosted agent requires a web proxy, you can inform the agent about the proxy during configuration.
This allows your agent to connect to Azure Pipelines or TFS through the proxy.
This in turn allows the agent to get sources and download artifacts.
Finally, it passes the proxy details through to tasks which also need proxy settings in order to reach the web.
Azure Pipelines, TFS 2018 RTM and newer
(Applies to agent version 2.122 and newer.)
To enable the agent to run behind a web proxy, pass--proxyurl,--proxyusernameand--proxypasswordduring agent configuration.
--proxyurl
--proxyusername
--proxypassword
For example:
Windows
macOS and Linux
./config.cmd --proxyurl http://127.0.0.1:8888 --proxyusername "myuser" --proxypassword "mypass"
./config.cmd --proxyurl http://127.0.0.1:8888 --proxyusername "myuser" --proxypassword "mypass"
./config.sh --proxyurl http://127.0.0.1:8888 --proxyusername "myuser" --proxypassword "mypass"
./config.sh --proxyurl http://127.0.0.1:8888 --proxyusername "myuser" --proxypassword "mypass"
We store your proxy credential responsibly on each platform to prevent accidental leakage.
On Linux, the credential is encrypted with a symmetric key based on the machine ID.
On macOS, we use the Keychain.
On Windows, we use the Credential Store.
Note
Agent version 122.0, which shipped with TFS 2018 RTM, has a known issue configuring as a service on Windows.
Because the Windows Credential Store is per user, you must configure the agent using the same user the service
is going to run as. For example, in order to configure the agent service run asmydomain\buildadmin,
you must launchconfig.cmdasmydomain\buildadmin. You can do that by logging into the machine with
that user or usingRun as a different userin the Windows shell.
mydomain\buildadmin
config.cmd
mydomain\buildadmin
Run as a different user
How the agent handles the proxy within a build or release job
The agent will talk to Azure DevOps/TFS service through the web proxy specified in the.proxyfile.
.proxy
Since the code for theGet Sourcetask in builds andDownload Artifacttask in releases are also baked into the agent, those tasks will follow the agent proxy configuration from the.proxyfile.
Get Source
Download Artifact
.proxy
The agent exposes proxy configuration via environment variables for every task execution.
Task authors need to useazure-pipelines-task-libmethods to retrieve proxy configuration andhandle the proxywithin their task.
Note that many tools do not automatically use the agent configured proxy settings. For example, tools such ascurlanddotnetmay require proxy environment variables such ashttp_proxyto also be set on the machine.
curl
dotnet
http_proxy
Specify proxy bypass URLs
Create a.proxybypassfile in the agent's root directory that specifies regular expressions (in ECMAScript syntax) to match URLs that should bypass the proxy. For example:
.proxybypass
github\.com
bitbucket\.com
github\.com
bitbucket\.com
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources