Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitor virtual machines with Azure Monitor
Article
2024-09-11
7 contributors
In this article
This guide describes how to use Azure Monitor to monitor the health and performance of virtual machines and their workloads. It includes collection of telemetry critical for monitoring and analysis and visualization of collected data to identify trends. It also shows you how to configure alerting to be proactively notified of critical issues.
Note
This guide describes how to implement complete monitoring of your enterprise Azure and hybrid virtual machine environment. To get started monitoring your first Azure virtual machine, seeMonitor Azure virtual machines.
Types of machines
This guide includes monitoring of the following types of machines using Azure Monitor. Many of the processes described here are the same regardless of the type of machine. Considerations for different types of machines are clearly identified where appropriate. The types of machines include:
Azure virtual machines.
Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets.
Hybrid machines, which are virtual machines running in other clouds, with a managed service provider, or on-premises. They also include physical machines running on-premises.
Layers of monitoring
There are fundamentally four layers to a virtual machine that require monitoring. Each layer has a distinct set of telemetry and monitoring requirements.

Configuration steps
The following table lists the different steps for configuration of VM monitoring. Each one links to an article with the detailed description of that configuration step.
VM insights
VM insightsis a feature in Azure Monitor that allows you to quickly get started monitoring your virtual machines. While it's not required to take advantage of most Azure Monitor features for monitoring your VMs, it provides the following value:
Simplified onboarding of the Azure Monitor agent to enable monitoring of a virtual machine guest operating system and workloads.
Preconfigured data collection rule that collects the most common set of performance counters for Windows and Linux.
Predefined trending performance charts and workbooks that you can use to analyze core performance metrics from the virtual machine's guest operating system.
Optional collection of details for each virtual machine, the processes running on it, and dependencies with other services.
Optional dependency map that displays interconnected components with other machines and external sources.
The articles in this guide provide guidance on configuring VM insights and using the data it collects with other Azure Monitor features. They also identify alternatives if you choose not to use VM insights.
Security monitoring
Azure Monitor focuses on operational data, while security monitoring in Azure is performed by other services such asMicrosoft Defender for CloudandMicrosoft Sentinel. Configuration of these services is not included in this guide.
Important
The security services have their own cost independent of Azure Monitor. Before you configure these services, refer to their pricing information to determine your appropriate investment in their usage.
The following table lists the integration points for Azure Monitor with the security services. All the services use the same Azure Monitor agent, which reduces complexity because there are no other components being deployed to your virtual machines. Defender for Cloud and Microsoft Sentinel store their data in a Log Analytics workspace so that you can use log queries to correlate data collected by the different services. Or you can create a custom workbook that combines security data and availability and performance data in a single view.
SeeDesign a Log Analytics workspace architecturefor guidance on the most effective workspace design for your requirements taking into account all your services that use them.
1Azure Monitor agent can collect security events but will send them to theEvent tablewith other events. Microsoft Sentinel provides additional features to collect and analyze these events.
Important
Azure Monitor agent is in preview for some service features. SeeSupported services and featuresfor current details.
Troubleshoot VM performance issues with Performance Diagnostics
The Performance Diagnostics toolhelps troubleshoot performance issues on Windows or Linux virtual machines by quickly diagnosing and providing insights on issues it currently finds on your machines. The tool does not analyze historical monitoring data you collect, but rather checks the current state of the machine for known issues, implementation of best practices, and complex problems that involve slow VM performance or high usage of CPU, disk space, or memory.
Next steps
Deploy the Azure Monitor agent to your virtual machines
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources