Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Data Factory - naming rules
Article
2025-03-31
13 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO:Azure Data FactoryAzure Synapse Analytics
Tip
Try outData Factory in Microsoft Fabric, an all-in-one analytics solution for enterprises.Microsoft Fabriccovers everything from data movement to data science, real-time analytics, business intelligence, and reporting. Learn how tostart a new trialfor free!
The following table provides naming rules for Data Factory artifacts.
MyDF
mydf
Each data factory is tied to exactly one Azure subscription.
Object names must start with a letter or a number, and can contain only letters, numbers, and the dash (-) character.
Every dash (-) character must be immediately preceded and followed by a letter or a number. Consecutive dashes aren't permitted in container names.
Name can be 3-63 characters long.
Object names must start with a letter.
The following characters aren't allowed: “.”, “+”, “?”, “/”, “<”, ”>”,”*”,”%”,”&”,”:”,”\”
Dashes ("-") aren't allowed in the names of linked services, data flows, and datasets.
Integration runtime Name can contain only letters, numbers, and the dash (-) character.
The first and last characters must be a letter or number. Every dash (-) character must be immediately preceded and followed by a letter or a number.
Consecutive dashes aren't permitted in integration runtime name.
Data flow transformation names can only contain letters and numbers
The first character must be a letter.
Validation check on parameter names and variable names is limited to uniqueness because of backward compatibility reason.
When use parameters or variables to reference entity names, for example linked service, the entity naming rules apply.
A good practice is to follow data flow transformation naming rules to name your pipeline parameters and variables.
Related content
Learn how to create data factories by following step-by-step instructions inQuickstart: create a data factoryarticle.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources