Run SAP BW/4HANA with Linux virtual machines on Azure
The following example focuses specifically on the SAP BW/4HANA application tier. It's suitable for a small-scale production environment of SAP BW/4HANA on Azure, where high availability is a priority.
Architecture

Download aVisio fileof this architecture.
Components
This architecture makes use of the following technologies:
Azure Virtual Networksecurely connects Azure resources to each other and to an on-premises environment. In this architecture, multiple VNets arepeered together.
Azure Virtual Networksecurely connects Azure resources to each other and to an on-premises environment. In this architecture, multiple VNets arepeered together.
Linux virtual machinesare used for the application tier, including:The SAP BusinessObjects (BOBJ) server pool.The SAP Web Dispatcher pool.The application servers pool.The SAP Central Services cluster.
Linux virtual machinesare used for the application tier, including:
The SAP BusinessObjects (BOBJ) server pool.
The SAP Web Dispatcher pool.
The application servers pool.
The SAP Central Services cluster.
Load balancersdirect traffic to virtual machines in the application subnet. For high availability, this example usesSAP Web DispatcherandAzure Standard Load Balancer. These two services also support capacity extension by scaling out, or you can use Azure Application Gateway or other partner products, depending on the traffic type and required functionality you need, such as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) termination and forwarding.
Load balancersdirect traffic to virtual machines in the application subnet. For high availability, this example usesSAP Web DispatcherandAzure Standard Load Balancer. These two services also support capacity extension by scaling out, or you can use Azure Application Gateway or other partner products, depending on the traffic type and required functionality you need, such as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) termination and forwarding.
Network security groups (NSGs)attach to a subnet or to the network interface cards (NICs) on a virtual machine. NSGs are used to restrict incoming, outgoing, and intra-subnet traffic in the virtual network.
Network security groups (NSGs)attach to a subnet or to the network interface cards (NICs) on a virtual machine. NSGs are used to restrict incoming, outgoing, and intra-subnet traffic in the virtual network.
Azure Bastionprovides secure access through the Azure portal to virtual machines that run in Azure, without using a jumpbox and its associated public IP address. This mechanism limits internet-facing exposure.
Azure Bastionprovides secure access through the Azure portal to virtual machines that run in Azure, without using a jumpbox and its associated public IP address. This mechanism limits internet-facing exposure.
Azure managed disksPremium or Ultra storage disks are recommended. These storage types provide data persistence for virtual machines with the SAP workload.
Azure managed disksPremium or Ultra storage disks are recommended. These storage types provide data persistence for virtual machines with the SAP workload.
Azure NetApp Filessupports shared storage when using a cluster. It also supports shared storage when you need high-performance storage that can host SAP HANA data and log files. Azure NetApp Files is fully managed and scalable enough to meet the demands of most applications. It gives bare-metal performance, submillisecond latency, and integrated data management for your complex enterprise workloads on:SAP HANA.High-performance computing.LOB applications.High-performance file shares.Virtual desktop infrastructure.
Azure NetApp Filessupports shared storage when using a cluster. It also supports shared storage when you need high-performance storage that can host SAP HANA data and log files. Azure NetApp Files is fully managed and scalable enough to meet the demands of most applications. It gives bare-metal performance, submillisecond latency, and integrated data management for your complex enterprise workloads on:
SAP HANA.
High-performance computing.
LOB applications.
High-performance file shares.
Virtual desktop infrastructure.
Power BIenables users to access and visualize SAP BW/4HANA data from their Windows desktop. Installation requires theSAP BW Connector(implementation 2.0).Microsoft Power BI Desktop imports data from various SAP sources, such as SAP BW/4HANA, for analysis and visualization. Power BI also complements SAP BusinessObjects Universe by offering a business context or a semantics layer over the raw information.
Power BIenables users to access and visualize SAP BW/4HANA data from their Windows desktop. Installation requires theSAP BW Connector(implementation 2.0).
Microsoft Power BI Desktop imports data from various SAP sources, such as SAP BW/4HANA, for analysis and visualization. Power BI also complements SAP BusinessObjects Universe by offering a business context or a semantics layer over the raw information.
Azure Backupis an SAP Backint-certified data protection solution for SAP HANA in single-instance and scale-up deployments. Azure Backup also protects Azure Virtual Machines with general workloads.
Azure Backupis an SAP Backint-certified data protection solution for SAP HANA in single-instance and scale-up deployments. Azure Backup also protects Azure Virtual Machines with general workloads.
Azure Site Recoveryis recommended as part of an automated disaster recovery solution for a multitier SAP NetWeaver application deployment. Thesupport matrixdetails the capabilities and restrictions of this solution.
Azure Site Recoveryis recommended as part of an automated disaster recovery solution for a multitier SAP NetWeaver application deployment. Thesupport matrixdetails the capabilities and restrictions of this solution.
Alternatives
To help protect SAP global host files for SAP Central Services and the SAP transport directory, you can deployNetwork File System (NFS)servers in a failover cluster configuration.
To help protect SAP global host files for SAP Central Services and the SAP transport directory, you can deployNetwork File System (NFS)servers in a failover cluster configuration.
SIOS Protection Suite, available in Azure Marketplace, can be used to protect the global host files for Central Services instead of NFS or Azure NetApp Files.
SIOS Protection Suite, available in Azure Marketplace, can be used to protect the global host files for Central Services instead of NFS or Azure NetApp Files.
Azure Application Gatewayis a web traffic load balancer. In one service, it provides SSL termination, a Web Application Firewall (WAF) service, and other handy high-availability and scalability features. Some SAP deployments have used it as agateway for the SAP Fiori front endin their production landscape.
Azure Application Gatewayis a web traffic load balancer. In one service, it provides SSL termination, a Web Application Firewall (WAF) service, and other handy high-availability and scalability features. Some SAP deployments have used it as agateway for the SAP Fiori front endin their production landscape.
Scenario details
SAP BW/4HANA is an enterprise data warehouse solution designed for the cloud and optimized for the SAP HANA platform. The following example focuses specifically on the SAP BW/4HANA application tier. It's suitable for a small-scale production environment of SAP BW/4HANA on Azure, where high availability is a priority.
This example workload also draws on the foundation of a pair of SAP on Azure reference architectures:SAP NetWeaver (Windows) for AnyDB on virtual machinesandSAP S/4HANA for Linux virtual machines on Azure. A similar deployment approach is used for SAP BW/4HANA workloads. The application layer is deployed using virtual machines that can be changed in size to accommodate your organization's needs.
The network layout has been simplified to demonstrate recommended architectural principles for an Azure enterprise deployment based on ahub-spoke topology.
Note
Many deployment considerations apply when deploying SAP workloads on Azure. For more ideas and further information, see theSAP on Azure planning and deployment checklist.
For more information about the data persistence layer, seeRun SAP HANA on Linux virtual machines.
Potential use cases
This scenario is relevant to the following use cases:
Deployment of the SAP application layer separate from the DBMS layer
Deployment of the SAP application layer separate from the DBMS layer
Disaster recovery (DR) scenarios
Disaster recovery (DR) scenarios
Deployments of the SAP application tier
Deployments of the SAP application tier
Recommendations
This architecture is designed for high availability, scalability, and resilience. For the best results on Azure, consider the recommendations in this section. Also, many of the recommendations for running SAP S/4HANA on Azure also apply to SAP BW/4HANA deployments. For details about SAP S/4HANA on Azure, see thereference architecture.
Virtual machines
For details about SAP support for Azure virtual machine types and throughput metrics (SAPS), seeSAP Note 1928533, "SAP Applications on Azure: Supported Products and Azure Virtual Machine Types." (To access this and other SAP notes, an SAP Service Marketplace account is required.)
For information about whether a virtual machine type has been certified for scale-out deployments of SAP HANA, see theSAP HANA Hardware Directory.
Application servers pool
In application servers pool, you can adjust the number of virtual machines based on your requirements.Azure is certifiedto run SAP BW/4HANA on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SUSE Linux Enterprise.
To manage logon groups for ABAP application servers, it's common to use the SMLG transaction to load-balance different groups, such as:
Logon users.
SM61 for batch server groups.
RZ12 for RFC groups.
These transactions use the load-balancing capability within the message server of Central Services to distribute incoming sessions or workload among SAP application servers pool for SAP GUIs and RFC traffic.
SAP Central Services cluster
This example shows a highly available cluster that uses Azure NetApp Files as a shared file storage solution. High availability for the Central Services cluster requires shared storage. Azure NetApp Files provides a simple highly available option so you don't have to deploy a Linux cluster infrastructure. An alternative is to set up a highly availableNFS service.
You can also deploy Central Services to a single virtual machine with Premium-managed disks and get a 99.9-percent availabilitySLA.
The virtual machines used for the application servers support multiple IP addresses per NIC. This feature supports the SAP recommended practice of using virtual host names for installations as outlined inSAP Note 962955. Virtual host names decouple the SAP services from the physical host names and make it easier to migrate services from one physical host to another. This principle also applies to cloud virtual machines.
Application servers are connected to the highly available Central Services on Azure through the virtual host names of the Central Services or ERS services. These host names are assigned to the cluster front-end IP configuration of the load balancer. A load balancer supports many front-end IPs. Both the Central Services and ERS virtual IPs (VIPs) can be bound to one load balancer.
Azure also supports high availability in amulti-SID installationof the Linux and Windows clusters that host Central Services (ASCS/SCS). For details about deploying to a Pacemaker cluster, see the Azure multi-SID documentation for:
Windows.
Red Hat Linux.
SUSE Linux.
This example architecture also uses aproximity placement groupto reduce network latency between virtual machines. This type of group places a location constraint on virtual machine deployments and minimizes the physical distance between them. This article provides updated guidance regarding the use of proximity placement groups. It's important to have a good understanding of this guidance before you deploy to production.
Database
SAP BW/4HANA is designed for the SAP HANA database platform. Azure provides three scalability and deployment options:
In a scale-up SAP HANA deployment, the database tier uses two or more Linux virtual machines in a cluster to achieve high availability.
In a scale-up SAP HANA deployment, the database tier uses two or more Linux virtual machines in a cluster to achieve high availability.
Ascale-out deployment of SAP HANAis supported for some virtual machine types.
Ascale-out deployment of SAP HANAis supported for some virtual machine types.
TheCertified and Supported SAP HANA Hardware Directoryprovides an inclusive list of VM SKUs that support both OLAP and OLTP workloads for both scale-up and scale-out configurations.
TheCertified and Supported SAP HANA Hardware Directoryprovides an inclusive list of VM SKUs that support both OLAP and OLTP workloads for both scale-up and scale-out configurations.
Storage
This example usesPremium managed disksfor the non-shared storage of the application servers. It also usesAzure NetApp Filesfor cluster shared storage.
Azure Premium SSD v2is designed for performance-critical workloads like SAP. SeeDeploy a Premium SSD v2for information about the storage solution's benefits and current limitations.
Ultra Disk Storagesignificantly reduces disk latency. As a result, it benefits performance-critical applications like the SAP database servers. To compare block storage options in Azure, seeAzure managed disk types.
Standard managed disks aren't supported, as stated inSAP Note 1928533. The use of standard storage isn't recommended for any SAP installations.
For the backup data store, we recommend using Azurecool and archive access tiers. These storage tiers are cost-effective ways to store long-lived data that is infrequently accessed.
Networking
Although not required, ahub-spoke topologyis commonly deployed to provide logical isolation and security boundaries for an SAP landscape. For other networking details, see theSAP S/4HANA reference architecture.
The hub virtual network acts as a central point of connectivity to an on-premises network. The spokes are VNets thatpeerwith the hub, and they can be used to isolate workloads. Traffic flows between the on-premises datacenter and the hub through a gateway connection.
Most customer implementations include one or more ExpressRoute circuits connecting on-premises networks to Azure. For less network bandwidth demand, VPN is a lower-cost alternative.
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeMicrosoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.
Reliability
Reliability ensures your application can meet the commitments you make to your customers. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Reliability.
Resource redundancy is the general theme in highly available infrastructure solutions. If your organization has a less stringent SLA, use single-instance virtual machines with Premium disks, which offer anuptime SLA.
To maximize application availability, you can deploy redundant resources in an availability set or acrossAvailability Zones. For more information, see theSAP S/4HANA reference architecture.
This architecture places virtual machines that do the same role into an availability set. This configuration helps meetSLAsby guarding against downtime caused by Azure infrastructure maintenance and unplanned outages. Two or more virtual machines per availability set are required to get a higher SLA.
Azure Load Balanceris a network transmission layer service (layer 4). In cluster configurations, Azure Load Balancer directs traffic to the primary service instance or the healthy node if there's a fault. We recommend usingAzure Standard Load Balancerfor all SAP scenarios. It offers by-design security implementation and blocks outgoing traffic from the back-end pool unless you enableoutbound connectivity to public endpoints. In addition, you can also use anAzure NAT Gatewayto get outbound connectivity.
Also, if you decide to deploy SAP workloads inAzure Availability Zones, the Standard Load Balancer is zone-aware.
In this sample design, the SAP Web Dispatcher is used simply as an HTTP(s) load-balancing mechanism, for SAP traffic among the SAP application servers. To achievehigh availabilityfor the Web Dispatcher component, Azure Load Balancer implements either the failover cluster or the parallel Web Dispatcher setup. SeeSAP Web Dispatcherin the SAP documentation.
As a software load balancer, Web Dispatcher offers extra layer services that can do SSL termination and other offloading functions. These layer services are known  aslayer 7in the ISO networking model.
No other load balancer is needed for traffic from SAP GUI clients that connect an SAP server via DIAG protocol or Remote Function Calls (RFC). The Central Services message server balances the load throughlogon groupsin the SAP application server.
The Web Dispatcher component is used as a load balancer for SAP traffic among the SAP application servers. To achievehigh availability of the SAP Web Dispatcher, Azure Load Balancer implements either the failover cluster or the parallel Web Dispatcher setup.
For internet-facing communications, a stand-alone solution in DMZ would be the recommended architecture to satisfy security concerns.
Embedded Web Dispatcheron ASCS is a special option, and proper sizing because of extra workload on ASCS should be taken into account.
To protect theavailability of SAP Central Services (ASCS)on Azure Linux virtual machines, you must use the appropriate high availability extension (HAE) for your selected Linux distribution. HAE delivers Linux clustering software and OS-specific integration components for implementation.
To avoid a cluster split-brain problem, you can set up cluster node fencing using an iSCSI STONITH Block Device (SBD), as this example shows. Or you can instead use theAzure Fence Agent. The improved Azure Fence Agent provides much faster service failover compared to the previous version of the agent for Red Hat and SUSE environments.
To achieve high availability for the SAP primary application servers and other application servers, load-balance traffic within the pool of application servers.
For the SAP ASCS and application servers, we recommend using Azure Backup to protect the virtual machine contents. Azure Backup provides independent, isolated backups to help guard against accidental destruction of original data. Backups are stored in aRecovery Services vaultthat offers built-in management of recovery points. Configuration and scalability are simple, backups are optimized, and you can easily restore as needed.
Backup of the database tier varies depending on whether SAP HANA is deployed onvirtual machines. For more information, see themanagement and operations considerationsfor SAP HANA on Linux virtual machines.
Azure supports variousdisaster recovery optionsdepending on your requirements. SAP application servers don't contain business data, so you can create SAP application servers in a secondary region before shutting them down. SAP application server software updates and configuration changes should be replicated to the disaster recovery side either manually or on a schedule. You can build a virtual machine in the disaster recovery region to run the Central Services role, which also doesn't persist business data. For details, see theSAP S/4HANA reference architecture.
Security
Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the abuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Security.
SAP has its own User Management Engine (UME) to control role-based access and authorization within the SAP application and databases. For details, see theSecurity Guide SAP BW∕4HANA.
TheSAP S/4HANA reference architectureprovides other infrastructure security considerations that apply to SAP BW/4HANA.
Operational Excellence
Operational Excellence covers the operations processes that deploy an application and keep it running in production. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Operational Excellence.
To maximize the availability and performance of applications and services, useAzure Monitor, which includes Azure Log Analytics and Azure Application Insights and provides sophisticated tools for collecting and analyzing telemetry. It can help you maximize the performance and availability of your cloud and on-premises resources and applications. You can use Azure Monitor to monitor infrastructure and application anomalies, send alerts to administrators, and automate reactions to predefined conditions.
For SAP applications that run on SAP HANA and other major database solutions, seeAzure Monitor for SAP solutionsto learn how Azure Monitor for SAP can help you manage the availability and performance of SAP services. Azure Monitor for SAP provides a comprehensive initial set of metrics and telemetry for monitoring. The metric definitions are stored as SQL queries in JSON and can be modified to meet your requirements. The starting set of metrics is available on GitHubhere.
Performance Efficiency
Performance Efficiency is the ability of your workload to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Performance Efficiency.
SAP BW/4HANA is designed for real-time data warehousing tasks. SAP application servers carry on constant communications with the database servers, so minimizing latency from the application virtual machines to the database contributes to better application performance. Disk caching and server placement are two strategies that help reduce latency between these two components.
For performance-critical applications running on any database platforms, including SAP HANA, usePremium managed disksand enableWrite Acceleratorfor the log volume. Write Accelerator is available for M-series virtual machines and improves write latency. However, when available, useUltra managed disksin place of Premium disks without Write Accelerator. Ultra disk capabilities continue to evolve. To see if these disks meet your requirements, review the latest information about the service scope ofultra disks. Do this review especially if your implementation includes Azure resiliency features such as availability sets, Availability Zones, and cross-region replication.
To help performance by reducing the physical distance between the applications and database, use a proximity placement group, as mentioned earlier.Scripts and utilitiesare available on GitHub.
To optimize inter-server communications, useAccelerated Networking, which is available for supported virtual machines, including D/DSv2, D/DSv3, E/ESv3, F/FS, FSv2, and Ms/Mms. In all SAP implementations, Accelerated Networking is required—especially when Azure NetApp Files is used.
To achieve high IO per second and disk bandwidth throughput, the common practices in storage volumeperformance optimizationapply to Azure storage layout. For example, combining multiple disks together to create a striped disk volume improves IO performance. Enabling the read cache on storage content that changes infrequently enhances the speed of data retrieval.
This example architecture describes a small, production-level deployment with the flexibility to scale based on your requirements.
At the SAP application layer, Azure offers a wide range of virtual machine sizes for scaling up and scaling out. For an inclusive list, seeSAP Note 1928533. As we continue to certify more virtual machines types, you can scale up or down in the same cloud deployment.
Contributors
This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.
Principal author:
Ben Trinh| Principal Architect
To see non-public LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.
Next steps
Learn more about the component technologies:
About SAP HANA database backup in Azure VMs
Azure managed disks
Create and deploy virtual machines in an availability set
High availability for SAP NetWeaver on Azure VMs
Installation of SAP HANA on Azure virtual machines
Linux virtual machines in Azure
Load Balancer documentation
Network security groups
SAP workload configurations with Azure Availability Zones
Set up disaster recovery for a multi-tier SAP NetWeaver app deployment
Use Azure to host and run SAP workload scenarios
Use the SAP Business Warehouse connector in Power BI Desktop
What is Azure Bastion?
What is Azure Load Balancer?
What is Azure Virtual Network?
What is Power BI?
Related resources
Explore related architectures:
Run a Linux VM on Azure
Run SAP HANA for Linux virtual machines in a scale-up architecture on Azure
SAP S/4HANA in Linux on Azure
SAP S/4 HANA for large instances