Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Automanage for Machines Best Practices - Azure Arc-enabled servers
Article
2025-02-11
9 contributors
In this article
Caution
On September 30, 2027, the Azure Automanage Best Practices service will be retired. As a result, attempting to create a new configuration profile or onboarding a new subscription to the service will result in an error. Learn morehereabout how to migrate to Azure Policy before that date.
Caution
Starting February 1st 2025, Azure Automanage will begin rolling out changes to halt support and enforcement for all services dependent on the deprecated Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA). To continue using Change Tracking and Management, VM Insights, Update Management, and Azure Automation,migrate to the new Azure Monitor Agent (AMA).
Caution
This article references CentOS, a Linux distribution that is End Of Life (EOL) status. Please consider your use and planning accordingly. For more information, see theCentOS End Of Life guidance.
These Azure services are automatically onboarded for you when you use Automanage Machine Best Practices on an Azure Arc-enabled server VM. They are essential to our best practices white paper, which you can find in ourCloud Adoption Framework.
For all of these services, we will auto-onboard, auto-configure, monitor for drift, and remediate if drift is detected. To learn more, go toAzure Automanage for virtual machines.
Supported operating systems
Automanage supports the following operating systems for Azure Arc-enabled servers
Windows Server 2012 R2, 2016, 2019, 2022
CentOS 7.3+, 8
RHEL 7.4+, 8
Ubuntu 16.04, 18.04, 20.04
SLES 12 (SP3-SP5 only)
Participating services
1Theconfiguration profileselection is available when you are enabling Automanage. You can also create your own custom profile with the set of Azure services and settings that you need.
Next steps
Try enabling Automanage for machines in the Azure portal.
Enable Automanage for machines in the Azure portal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources