Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Back up Azure unmanaged Virtual Machine disks with incremental snapshots
Article
2024-09-25
1 contributor
In this article
Overview
Azure Storage provides the capability to take snapshots of blobs. Snapshots capture the blob state at that point in time. In this article, we describe a scenario in which you can maintain backups of virtual machine disks using snapshots. You can use this methodology when you choose not to use Azure Backup and Recovery Service, and wish to create a custom backup strategy for your virtual machine disks. For virtual machines running business or mission critical workloads, it's recommended to useAzure Backupas part of the backup strategy.
Azure virtual machine disks are stored as page blobs in Azure Storage. Since we are describing a backup strategy for virtual machine disks in this article, we refer to snapshots in the context of page blobs. To learn more about snapshots, refer toCreating a Snapshot of a Blob.
What is a snapshot?
A blob snapshot is a read-only version of a blob that is captured at a point in time. Once a snapshot has been created, it can be read, copied, or deleted, but not modified. Snapshots provide a way to back up a blob as it appears at a moment in time. Until REST version 2015-04-05, you had the ability to copy full snapshots. With the REST version 2015-07-08 and above, you can also copy incremental snapshots.
Full snapshot copy
Snapshots can be copied to another storage account as a blob to keep backups of the base blob. You can also copy a snapshot over its base blob, which is like restoring the blob to an earlier version. When a snapshot is copied from one storage account to another, it occupies the same space as the base page blob. Therefore, copying whole snapshots from one storage account to another is slow and consumes much space in the target storage account.
Note
If you copy the base blob to another destination, the snapshots of the blob are not copied along with it. Similarly, if you overwrite a base blob with a copy, snapshots associated with the base blob are not affected and stay intact under the base blob name.
Back up disks using snapshots
As a backup strategy for your virtual machine disks, you can take periodic snapshots of the disk or page blob, and copy them to another storage account using tools likeCopy Bloboperation orAzCopy. You can copy a snapshot to a destination page blob with a different name. The resulting destination page blob is a writeable page blob and not a snapshot. Later in this article, we describe steps to take backups of virtual machine disks using snapshots.
Restore disks using snapshots
When it is time to restore your disk to a stable version that was previously captured in one of the backup snapshots, you can copy a snapshot over the base page blob. After the snapshot is promoted to the base page blob, the snapshot remains, but its source is overwritten with a copy that can be both read and written. Later in this article we describe steps to restore a previous version of your disk from its snapshot.
Implementing full snapshot copy
You can implement a full snapshot copy by doing the following,
First, take a snapshot of the base blob using theSnapshot Bloboperation.
Then, copy the snapshot to a target storage account usingCopy Blob.
Repeat this process to maintain backup copies of your base blob.
Incremental snapshot copy
The new feature in theGetPageRangesAPI provides a much better way to back up the snapshots of your page blobs or disks. The API returns the list of changes between the base blob and the snapshots, which reduces the amount of storage space used on the backup account. The API supports page blobs on Premium Storage as well as Standard Storage. Using this API, you can build faster and more efficient backup solutions for Azure VMs. This API will be available with the REST version 2015-07-08 and higher.
Incremental Snapshot Copy allows you to copy from one storage account to another the difference between,
Base blob and its Snapshot OR
Any two snapshots of the base blob
Provided the following conditions are met,
The blob was created on Jan-1-2016 or later.
The blob was not overwritten withPutPageorCopy Blobbetween two snapshots.
Note
This feature is available for Premium and Standard Azure Page Blobs.
When you have a custom backup strategy using snapshots, copying the snapshots from one storage account to another can be slow and can consume much storage space. Instead of copying the entire snapshot to a backup storage account, you can write the difference between consecutive snapshots to a backup page blob. This way, the time to copy and the space to store backups is substantially reduced.
Implementing Incremental Snapshot Copy
You can implement incremental snapshot copy by doing the following,
Take a snapshot of the base blob usingSnapshot Blob.
Copy the snapshot to the target backup storage account in same or any other Azure region usingCopy Blob. This is the backup page blob. Take a snapshot of the backup page blob and store it in the backup account.
Take another snapshot of the base blob using Snapshot Blob.
Get the difference between the first and second snapshots of the base blob usingGetPageRanges. Use the new parameterprevsnapshot, to specify the DateTime value of the snapshot you want to get the difference with. When this parameter is present, the REST response includes only the pages that were changed between target snapshot and previous snapshot including clear pages.
UsePutPageto apply these changes to the backup page blob.
Finally, take a snapshot of the backup page blob and store it in the backup storage account.
In the next section, we will describe in more detail how you can maintain backups of disks using Incremental Snapshot Copy
Scenario
In this section, we describe a scenario that involves a custom backup strategy for virtual machine disks using snapshots.
Consider a DS-series Azure VM with a premium storage P30 disk attached. The P30 disk calledmypremiumdiskis stored in a premium storage account calledmypremiumaccount. A standard storage account calledmybackupstdaccountis used for storing the backup ofmypremiumdisk. We would like to keep a snapshot ofmypremiumdiskevery 12 hours.
To learn about creating a storage account, seeCreate a storage account.
To learn about backing up Azure VMs, refer toPlan Azure VM backups.
Steps to maintain backups of a disk using incremental snapshots
The following steps describe how to take snapshots ofmypremiumdiskand maintain the backups inmybackupstdaccount. The backup is a standard page blob calledmybackupstdpageblob. The backup page blob always reflects the same state as the last snapshot ofmypremiumdisk.
Create the backup page blob for your premium storage disk, by taking a snapshot ofmypremiumdiskcalledmypremiumdisk_ss1.
Copy this snapshot to mybackupstdaccount as a page blob calledmybackupstdpageblob.
Take a snapshot ofmybackupstdpageblobcalledmybackupstdpageblob_ss1, usingSnapshot Bloband store it inmybackupstdaccount.
During the backup window, create another snapshot ofmypremiumdisk, saymypremiumdisk_ss2, and store it inmypremiumaccount.
Get the incremental changes between the two snapshots,mypremiumdisk_ss2andmypremiumdisk_ss1, usingGetPageRangesonmypremiumdisk_ss2with theprevsnapshotparameter set to the timestamp ofmypremiumdisk_ss1. Write these incremental changes to the backup page blobmybackupstdpageblobinmybackupstdaccount. If there are deleted ranges in the incremental changes, they must be cleared from the backup page blob. UsePutPageto write incremental changes to the backup page blob.
Take a snapshot of the backup page blobmybackupstdpageblob, calledmybackupstdpageblob_ss2. Delete the previous snapshotmypremiumdisk_ss1from premium storage account.
Repeat steps 4-6 every backup window. In this way, you can maintain backups ofmypremiumdiskin a standard storage account.

Steps to restore a disk from snapshots
The following steps, describe how to restore the premium disk,mypremiumdiskto an earlier snapshot from the backup storage accountmybackupstdaccount.
Identify the point in time that you wish to restore the premium disk to. Let's say that it is snapshotmybackupstdpageblob_ss2, which is stored in the backup storage accountmybackupstdaccount.
In mybackupstdaccount, promote the snapshotmybackupstdpageblob_ss2as the new backup base page blobmybackupstdpageblobrestored.
Take a snapshot of this restored backup page blob, calledmybackupstdpageblobrestored_ss1.
Copy the restored page blobmybackupstdpageblobrestoredfrommybackupstdaccounttomypremiumaccountas the new premium diskmypremiumdiskrestored.
Take a snapshot ofmypremiumdiskrestored, calledmypremiumdiskrestored_ss1for making future incremental backups.
Point the DS series VM to the restored diskmypremiumdiskrestoredand detach the oldmypremiumdiskfrom the VM.
Begin the Backup process described in previous section for the restored diskmypremiumdiskrestored, using themybackupstdpageblobrestoredas the backup page blob.

Next steps
Use the following links to learn more about creating snapshots of a blob and planning your VM backup infrastructure.
Creating a Snapshot of a Blob
Plan your VM Backup Infrastructure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources