Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Understand Azure NetApp Files application volume group for SAP HANA
Article
2025-04-22
3 contributors
In this article
This article helps you understand the use cases and key features of Azure NetApp Files application volume group for SAP HANA.
Application volume group for SAP HANA enables you to deploy all volumes required to install and operate an SAP HANA database according to best practices. Instead of individually creating the required SAP HANA volumes (including data, log, shared, log-backup, and data-backup volumes), application volume group for SAP HANA creates these volumes in a single "atomic" call. The atomic call ensures that either all volumes or no volumes at all are created.
Application volume group for SAP HANA provides technical improvements to simplify and standardize the process to help you streamline volume deployments for SAP HANA. As a result, you can focus on your application demands instead of managing technical settings such as individual QoS or sizes for volumes.
Key features
Application volume group for SAP HANA is supported for all regions where Azure NetApp Files is available. It provides the following key features:
Supporting SAP HANA configurations for both single and multiple host setups, including:Volumes for a single or primary SAP HANA databaseVolumes for an SAP HANA System Replication (HSR) secondary systemVolumes for a disaster recovery (DR) scenario usingcross-region replication
Supporting SAP HANA configurations for both single and multiple host setups, including:
Volumes for a single or primary SAP HANA database
Volumes for an SAP HANA System Replication (HSR) secondary system
Volumes for a disaster recovery (DR) scenario usingcross-region replication
Creating the following volumes:SAP HANA data volumes (one for each database host)SAP HANA log volumes (one for each database host)SAP HANA shared volumes (for the first SAP HANA host only)Log-backup volumes (optional)File-based data-backup volumes (optional)
Creating the following volumes:
SAP HANA data volumes (one for each database host)
SAP HANA log volumes (one for each database host)
SAP HANA shared volumes (for the first SAP HANA host only)
Log-backup volumes (optional)
File-based data-backup volumes (optional)
Creating volumes in amanual QoS capacity pool. The volume size and the required performance (in MiB/s) are proposed based on user input for the memory size of the database.
Creating volumes in amanual QoS capacity pool. The volume size and the required performance (in MiB/s) are proposed based on user input for the memory size of the database.
The application volume group GUI and Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template provide best practices to simplify sizing management and volume creation. For example:Proposing volume naming convention based on SAP System ID (SID) and volume typeCalculating the size and performance based on memory size
The application volume group GUI and Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template provide best practices to simplify sizing management and volume creation. For example:
Proposing volume naming convention based on SAP System ID (SID) and volume type
Calculating the size and performance based on memory size
Application volume group for SAP HANA helps you simplify the deployment process and increase the storage performance for SAP HANA workloads. Some of the new features are as follows:
Availability zone volume placementDesignating the same availability zone for the volumes ensures that virtual machines and Azure NetApp Files volumes reside in the same availability zone and meet the latency requirements for SAP HANA. Availability zone volume placement simplifies the deployment process, avoiding the manual AvSet pinning process and eliminating the requirement for availability sets. To learn more about the differences between availability zone volume placement and proximity placement groups, seeRequirements and considerations for application volume group for SAP HANA.
Availability zone volume placement
Designating the same availability zone for the volumes ensures that virtual machines and Azure NetApp Files volumes reside in the same availability zone and meet the latency requirements for SAP HANA. Availability zone volume placement simplifies the deployment process, avoiding the manual AvSet pinning process and eliminating the requirement for availability sets. To learn more about the differences between availability zone volume placement and proximity placement groups, seeRequirements and considerations for application volume group for SAP HANA.
Creation of separate storage endpoints (with different IP addresses) for data and log volumes.This deployment method provides better performance and throughput for the SAP HANA database.
Creation of separate storage endpoints (with different IP addresses) for data and log volumes.
This deployment method provides better performance and throughput for the SAP HANA database.
Standard network featuresApplication volume group for SAP HANA now supports selecting Standard network features for all volumes in the volume group. Standard network features support enhanced security includingnetwork security groups (NSGs)
Standard network features
Application volume group for SAP HANA now supports selecting Standard network features for all volumes in the volume group. Standard network features support enhanced security includingnetwork security groups (NSGs)
Customer-managed keysApplication volumes group for SAP HANA now supports the use of customer-managed keys for increased security and compliance. With customer-managed keys, you can fully manage the relationship between a key's life cycle, key usage permissions, and auditing operations on keys.
Customer-managed keys
Application volumes group for SAP HANA now supports the use of customer-managed keys for increased security and compliance. With customer-managed keys, you can fully manage the relationship between a key's life cycle, key usage permissions, and auditing operations on keys.
Next steps
Requirements and considerations for application volume group for SAP HANA
Deploy the first SAP HANA host using application volume group for SAP HANA
Add hosts to a multiple-host SAP HANA system using application volume group for SAP HANA
Add volumes for an SAP HANA system as a secondary database in HSR
Add volumes for an SAP HANA system as a DR system using cross-region replication
Manage volumes in an application volume group
Delete an application volume group
Application volume group FAQs
Troubleshoot application volume group errors
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources