Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Choose an Azure AI services technology
Article
2025-03-21
8 contributors
In this article
Azure AI servicesoffers a suite of data science tools, models, and inferencing capabilities that support a broad array of functionality. Most require little or no specific AI expertise to use. So whether you're a student, run a small-business, are launching a startup, or lead a large enterprise-scale project, you can get started right away. It's recommended to use these services, over building custom solutions, to embed intelligent application functionality into your workload. For many use cases, these prebuilt models and SaaS solutions are sufficient to provide what your workload requires. However, many of these capabilities support further customization and fine tuning as necessary, without the need to redesign your workload.
Some projects require functionality that goes beyond what prebuilt models can provide. You could need to use your own data exclusively to build a new model, or perform functions outside the scope of any existing prebuilt models. In those cases,Azure Machine Learning serviceslet you build custom models of any type or scale. While these solutions require more expertise, they can also support bespoke requirements for organizations of every scale and for every budget.
This article provides a comparison and decision guide between the different offerings of Azure AI and Azure Machine Learning services. It's organized by broad categories to help you choose which service or model is right for your use case.
Categories of Azure AI services
Azure offers a number of AI services that can be grouped into categories based on their capabilities:
Next steps
Learning path: Get started with Azure AI Services
Azure AI Services documentation
What are Azure AI services?
Related resources
Video ingestion and object detection on the edge and in the cloud
Image classification on Azure
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources