Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is the Speech service?
Article
2025-03-10
3 contributors
In this article
The Speech service provides speech to text and text to speech capabilities with aSpeech resource. You can transcribe speech to text with high accuracy, produce natural-sounding text to speech voices, translate spoken audio, and use speaker recognition during conversations.

Create custom voices, add specific words to your base vocabulary, or build your own models. Run Speech anywhere, in the cloud or at the edge in containers. It's easy to speech enable your applications, tools, and devices with theSpeech CLI,Speech SDK, andREST APIs.
Speech is available for manylanguages,regions, andprice points.
Speech scenarios
Common scenarios for speech include:
Captioning: Learn how to synchronize captions with your input audio, apply profanity filters, get partial results, apply customizations, and identify spoken languages for multilingual scenarios.
Audio Content Creation: You can use neural voices to make interactions with chatbots and voice assistants more natural and engaging, convert digital texts such as e-books into audiobooks and enhance in-car navigation systems.
Call Center: Transcribe calls in real-time or process a batch of calls, redact personally identifying information, and extract insights such as sentiment to help with your call center use case.
Language learning: Provide pronunciation assessment feedback to language learners, support real-time transcription for remote learning conversations, and read aloud teaching materials with neural voices.
Voice assistants: Create natural, human like conversational interfaces for their applications and experiences. The voice assistant feature provides fast, reliable interaction between a device and an assistant implementation.
Microsoft uses Speech for many scenarios, such as captioning in Teams, dictation in Office 365, and Read Aloud in the Microsoft Edge browser.

Speech capabilities
These sections summarize Speech features with links for more information.
Speech to text
Usespeech to textto transcribe audio into text, either inreal-timeor asynchronously withbatch transcription.
Tip
You can try real-time speech to text inSpeech Studiowithout signing up or writing any code.
Convert audio to text from a range of sources, including microphones, audio files, and blob storage. Use speaker diarization to determine who said what and when. Get readable transcripts with automatic formatting and punctuation.
The base model might not be sufficient if the audio contains ambient noise or includes numerous industry and domain-specific jargon. In these cases, you can create and traincustom speech modelswith acoustic, language, and pronunciation data. Custom speech models are private and can offer a competitive advantage.
Real-time speech to text
Withreal-time speech to text, the audio is transcribed as speech is recognized from a microphone or file. Use real-time speech to text for applications that need to transcribe audio in real-time such as:
Transcriptions, captions, or subtitles for live meetings
Diarization
Pronunciation assessment
Contact center agents assist
Dictation
Voice agents
Fast transcription API
Fast transcription API is used to transcribe audio files with returning results synchronously and much faster than real-time audio. Use fast transcription in the scenarios that you need the transcript of an audio recording as quickly as possible with predictable latency, such as:
Quick audio or video transcription, subtitles, and edit.
Video translation
To get started with fast transcription, seeuse the fast transcription API.
Batch transcription
Batch transcriptionis used to transcribe a large amount of audio in storage. You can point to audio files with a shared access signature (SAS) URI and asynchronously receive transcription results. Use batch transcription for applications that need to transcribe audio in bulk such as:
Transcriptions, captions, or subtitles for prerecorded audio
Contact center post-call analytics
Diarization
Text to speech
Withtext to speech, you can convert input text into human like synthesized speech. Use neural voices, which are human like voices powered by deep neural networks. Use theSpeech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML)to fine-tune the pitch, pronunciation, speaking rate, volume, and more.
Prebuilt neural voice: Highly natural out-of-the-box voices. Check the prebuilt neural voice samples theVoice Galleryand determine the right voice for your business needs.
Custom neural voice: Besides the prebuilt neural voices that come out of the box, you can also create acustom neural voicethat is recognizable and unique to your brand or product. Custom neural voices are private and can offer a competitive advantage. Check the custom neural voice sampleshere.
Speech translation
Speech translationenables real-time, multilingual translation of speech to your applications, tools, and devices. Use this feature for speech to speech and speech to text translation.
Language identification
Language identificationis used to identify languages spoken in audio when compared against a list ofsupported languages. Use language identification by itself, with speech to text recognition, or with speech translation.
Speaker recognition
Speaker recognitionprovides algorithms that verify and identify speakers by their unique voice characteristics. Speaker recognition is used to answer the question, "Who is speaking?".
Pronunciation assessment
Pronunciation assessmentevaluates speech pronunciation and gives speakers feedback on the accuracy and fluency of spoken audio. With pronunciation assessment, language learners can practice, get instant feedback, and improve their pronunciation so that they can speak and present with confidence.
Intent recognition
Intent recognition: Use speech to text with conversational language understanding to derive user intents from transcribed speech and act on voice commands.
Delivery and presence
You can deploy Azure AI Speech features in the cloud or on-premises.
Withcontainers, you can bring the service closer to your data for compliance, security, or other operational reasons.
Speech service deployment in sovereign clouds is available for some government entities and their partners. For example, the Azure Government cloud is available to US government entities and their partners. Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet cloud is available to organizations with a business presence in China. For more information, seesovereign clouds.

Use Speech in your application
TheSpeech Studiois a set of UI-based tools for building and integrating features from Azure AI Speech service in your applications. You create projects in Speech Studio by using a no-code approach, and then reference those assets in your applications by using theSpeech SDK, theSpeech CLI, or the REST APIs.
TheSpeech CLIis a command-line tool for using Speech service without having to write any code. Most features in the Speech SDK are available in the Speech CLI, and some advanced features and customizations are simplified in the Speech CLI.
TheSpeech SDKexposes many of the Speech service capabilities you can use to develop speech-enabled applications. The Speech SDK is available in many programming languages and across all platforms.
In some cases, you can't or shouldn't use theSpeech SDK. In those cases, you can use REST APIs to access the Speech service. For example, use REST APIs forbatch transcriptionandspeaker recognitionREST APIs.
Get started
We offer quickstarts in many popular programming languages. Each quickstart is designed to teach you basic design patterns and have you running code in less than 10 minutes. See the following list for the quickstart for each feature:
Speech to text quickstart
Text to speech quickstart
Speech translation quickstart
Code samples
Sample code for the Speech service is available on GitHub. These samples cover common scenarios like reading audio from a file or stream, continuous and single-shot recognition, and working with custom models. Use these links to view SDK and REST samples:
Speech to text, text to speech, and speech translation samples (SDK)
Batch transcription samples (REST)
Text to speech samples (REST)
Voice assistant samples (SDK)
Responsible AI
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who use it, the people who are affected by it, and the environment in which it's deployed. Read the transparency notes to learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems.
Speech to text
Transparency note and use cases
Characteristics and limitations
Integration and responsible use
Data, privacy, and security
Pronunciation Assessment
Transparency note and use cases
Characteristics and limitations
Custom neural voice
Transparency note and use cases
Characteristics and limitations
Limited access
Responsible deployment of synthetic speech
Disclosure of voice talent
Disclosure of design guidelines
Disclosure of design patterns
Code of conduct
Data, privacy, and security
Speaker Recognition
Transparency note and use cases
Characteristics and limitations
Limited access
General guidelines
Data, privacy, and security
Next steps
Get started with speech to text
Get started with text to speech
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources