Databases architecture design
This article provides an overview of the Azure database solutions described in Azure Architecture Center.

Apache®, Apache Cassandra®, and the Hadoop logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and/or other countries. No endorsement by The Apache Software Foundation is implied by the use of these marks.
Azure Database solutions include traditional relational database management systems (RDBMS and OLTP), big data and analytics workloads (including OLAP), and NoSQL workloads.
RDBMS workloads include online transaction processing (OLTP) and online analytical processing (OLAP).
Data from multiple sources in the organization can be consolidated into a data warehouse.
You can use an extract, transform, load (ETL) or extract, load, transform (ELT) process to move and transform the source data. For more information on RDBMS Databases, seeExplore Relational Databases in Azure.
A big data architecture is designed to handle the ingestion, processing, and analysis of large or complex data.
Big data solutions typically involve a large amount of relational and nonrelational data, which traditional RDBMS systems aren't well suited to store. These typically involve solutions such as Data Lakes, Delta Lakes, and lakehouses. See more information inAnalytics Architecture Design.
NoSQL databases are interchangeably referred to asnonrelational,NoSQL DBs, ornon-SQLto highlight the fact that they can handle huge volumes of rapidly changing, unstructured data. They don't store data in tables, rows, and columns, like (SQL) databases. For more information on No SQL DBs Databases, seeNoSQL DataandWhat are NoSQL Databases?.
This article provides resources to learn about Azure databases. It outlines paths to implement the architectures that meet your needs and best practices to keep in mind as you design your solutions.
There are many architectures for you to draw from to address your database needs.
We also provide solution ideas for you to build on, which include links to all the components you need.
Learn about databases on Azure
As you start thinking about possible architectures for your solution, it's vital that you choose the correct data store. If you're new to databases on Azure, the best place to start is Microsoft Learn. This free online platform provides videos and tutorials for hands-on learning. Microsoft Learn offers learning paths that are based on your job role, such as developer or data analyst.
You can start with a general description of thedifferent databasesin Azure and their use. You can also browseAzure data modulesandChoose a data storage approach in Azure. These articles help you understand your choices in Azure data solutions and learn why some solutions are recommended in specific scenarios.
Here are some Learn modules you might find useful:
Design your migration to Azure
Deploy Azure SQL Database
Explore Azure database and analytics services
Secure your Azure SQL Database
Azure Cosmos DB
Azure Database for PostgreSQL
Azure Database for MySQL
SQL Server on Azure VMs
Path to production
To find options helpful for dealing with relational data, consider these resources:
To learn about resources for gathering data from multiple sources and how to and apply data transformations within the data pipelines, seeAnalytics in Azure.
To learn about OLAP, which organizes large business databases and supports complex analysis, seeOnline analytical processing.
To learn about OLTP systems record business interactions as they occur, seeOnline transaction processing.
Anonrelational databasedoesn't use the tabular schema of rows and columns. For more information, seeNonrelational data and NoSQL.
To learn about data lakes, which hold a large amount of data in its native, raw format, seeData lakes.
A big data architecture can handle ingestion, processing, and analysis of data that is too large or too complex for traditional database systems. For more information, seeBig data architecturesandAnalytics.
A hybrid cloud is an IT environment that combines public cloud and on-premises datacenters. For more information, considerAzure Arccombined with Azure databases.
Azure Cosmos DB is a fully managed NoSQL database service for modern app development. For more information, seeAzure Cosmos DB resource model.
To learn about the options for transferring data to and from Azure, seeTransfer data to and from Azure.
Best practices
Review these best practices when designing your solutions.
Technology choices
There are many options for technologies to use with Azure Databases.
These articles help you choose the best technologies for your needs.
Choose a Data Store
Choose an analytical data store in Azure
Choose a data analytics technology in Azure
Choose a batch processing technology in Azure
Choose a big data storage technology in Azure
Choose a data pipeline orchestration technology in Azure
Choose a search data store in Azure
Choose a stream processing technology in Azure
Stay current with databases
Refer toAzure updatesto keep current with Azure Databases technology.
Related resources
Adatum Corporation scenario for data management and analytics in Azure
Lamna Healthcare scenario for data management and analytics in Azure
Optimize administration of SQL Server instances
Relecloud scenario for data management and analytics in Azure
Similar database products
If you're familiar with Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Google Cloud, refer to the following comparisons:
Relational database technologies on Azure and AWS
Google Cloud to Azure services comparison - Data platform