Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Migrate your Azure unmanaged disks by September 30, 2025
Article
2024-08-22
7 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs
In 2017, we launchedAzure managed disks. We've been enhancing capabilities ever since. Because Azure managed disks now have the full capabilities of unmanaged disks and other advancements, we'll begin deprecating unmanaged disks on September 13, 2022. This functionality will be fully retired on September 30, 2025.
With managed disks, you don't have to worry about managing storage accounts for creating a disk, because Azure manages the storage accounts under the hood. The abstraction reduces maintenance overhead for you. Also, it allows managed disks to provide numerous benefits over unmanaged disks, such as betterreliability,scalability, large disks,bursting, andshared disks. If you use unmanaged disks, start planning yourWindowsorLinuxmigration now. Complete the migration by September 30, 2025, to take advantage of Azure managed disks.
How does this affect me?
As of January 30, 2024, new customers won't be able to create unmanaged disks.
On September 30, 2025, customers will no longer be able to start IaaS VMs by using unmanaged disks. Any VMs that are still running or allocated will be stopped and deallocated.
What is being retired?
Unmanaged disks are a type of page blob in Azure that is used for storing Virtual Hard Disk (VHD) files associated with virtual machines (VM). When a page blob VHD is attached to a VM, it functions as a virtual disk for that VM. The VM's operating system can read from and write to the attached page blob as if it were a SCSI volume. This retirement only affects page blobs being used as virtual disks that are directly attached to VMs.
Page blobs accessed directly via HTTP/HTTPS REST APIs are standalone entities and have no dependencies on any specific VM. Clients can interact with these page blobs using standard HTTP/HTTPS protocols, making requests to read from or write to the blobs using Storage REST APIs. Since these page blobs aren't attached as virtual disks, this retirement doesn't affect them.
Third party storage offerings on Azure that are using page blobs via HTTP/HTTPS REST APIs as their underlying storage solution may not be affected by this retirement.
What actions should I take?
Start planning your migration to Azure managed disks today.
Make a list of all affected VMs:The VMs withUses managed disksset toNoon theAzure portal's VM paneare all the affected VMs within the subscription.You can also query Azure Resource Graph by using theportalorPowerShellto view the list of all flagged VMs and related information for the selected subscriptions.On February 28, 2020, we sent out emails to subscription owners with a list of all subscriptions that contain these VMs. Use them to build this list.
Make a list of all affected VMs:
The VMs withUses managed disksset toNoon theAzure portal's VM paneare all the affected VMs within the subscription.
You can also query Azure Resource Graph by using theportalorPowerShellto view the list of all flagged VMs and related information for the selected subscriptions.
On February 28, 2020, we sent out emails to subscription owners with a list of all subscriptions that contain these VMs. Use them to build this list.
Learn moreabout migrating your VMs to managed disks. For more information, seeFrequently asked questions about migrating to managed disks.
Learn moreabout migrating your VMs to managed disks. For more information, seeFrequently asked questions about migrating to managed disks.
For technical questions, issues, and help with adding subscriptions to the allowlist,contact support.
For technical questions, issues, and help with adding subscriptions to the allowlist,contact support.
Complete the migration as soon as possible to prevent business impact and to take advantage of the improved reliability, scalability, security, and new features of Azure managed disks.
Complete the migration as soon as possible to prevent business impact and to take advantage of the improved reliability, scalability, security, and new features of Azure managed disks.
What resources are available for this migration?
Microsoft Q&A: Microsoft and community support for migration.
Azure Migration Support: Dedicated support team for technical assistance during migration.
Microsoft FastTrack: FastTrack can assist eligible customers with planning and execution of this migration.Nominate yourself.
If your company/organization has partnered with Microsoft or works with Microsoft representatives such as cloud solution architects (CSAs) or technical account managers (TAMs), please work with them for more resources for migration.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources