Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Migrate deployments and resources to Virtual Machine Scale Sets in Flexible orchestration
Article
2024-08-22
3 contributors
In this article
Like availability sets, Virtual Machine Scale Sets allows you to spread virtual machines across multiple fault domains. Virtual Machine Scale Sets with Flexible orchestration allows you to combine the scalability ofVirtual Machine Scale Sets in Uniform orchestration modewith the regional availability guarantees ofavailability sets. This article goes over migration considerations when switching to Flexible orchestration mode for Virtual Machine Scale Sets.
Update availability set deployments templates and scripts
First, you need to create a Virtual Machine Scale Set with no auto scaling profile viaAzure CLI,Azure PowerShell, orARM Template. Azure portal only allows creating a Virtual Machine Scale Set with an autoscaling profile. If you don't want or need an autoscaling profile and you want to create a scale set usingAzure portal, you can set the initial capacity to 0.
You must specify the fault domain count for the Virtual Machine Scale Set. For regional (non-zonal) deployments, Virtual Machine Scale Sets offers the same fault domain guarantees as availability sets. However, you can scale up to 1000 instances. For zonal deployments where you're spreading instances across multiple availability zones, the fault domain count must be set to 1.
Update domains have been deprecated in Flexible Orchestration mode. Most platform updates with general purpose SKUs are performed with Live Migration and don't require instance reboot. On the occasion that a platform maintenance requires instances to be rebooted, updates are applied fault domain by fault domain.
Flexible orchestration for Virtual Machine Scale Sets also supports deploying instances across multiple availability zones. You may want to consider updating your VM deployments to spread across multiple availability zones.
The last step in this process is to create a virtual machine. Instead of specifying an availability set, specify the Virtual Machine Scale Set. Optionally, you can specify the availability zone or fault domain in which you wish to place the VM.
Migrate existing availability set VMs
There's currently no automated tooling to directly move existing instances in an Availability Set to a Virtual Machine Scale Set. However, there are several strategies you can utilize to migrate existing instances to a Flexible scale set:
Blue/green or side by side migration
Bring up new scale set virtual machine instances with similar configuration into the same resource group, virtual network, load balancer, etc. as the VMs in the availability
Migrate data, network traffic, etc. to use the new scale set instances
Deallocate or remove the original Availability Set virtual machines, leaving the scale set VMs running for your application
Replace VM instances
Note the parameters you want to keep from the virtual machine (name, NIC ID, OS and data disk IDs, VM configuration settings, fault domain placement, etc.)
Delete the availability set virtual machine. The NICs and disks for the VM won't be deleted
Create a new virtual machine object, using the parameters from the original VMNIC IDOS and Data disksFault domain placementOther VM settings
NIC ID
OS and Data disks
Fault domain placement
Other VM settings
Update Uniform scale sets deployment templates and scripts
Update Uniform Virtual Machine Scale Sets deployment templates and scripts to use Flexible orchestration. Change the following elements in your templates to successfully complete the process.
RemoveLoadBalancerNATPool(not valid for flex)
LoadBalancerNATPool
Remove overprovisioning parameter (not valid for flex)
RemoveupgradePolicy(not valid for flex, yet)
upgradePolicy
Update compute API version to2021-03-01
Add orchestration modeflexible
flexible
platformFaultDomainCountrequired
platformFaultDomainCount
singlePlacementGroup=false required
singlePlacementGroup
Add network API version to2021-11-01or higher
Set IPconfiguration.properties.primarytotrue(required for Outbound rules)
configuration.properties.primary
Migrate existing Uniform scale sets
There's currently no automated tooling to directly move existing instances or upgrade a Uniform scale set to a Flexible Virtual Machine Scale Set. However, here's a strategy you can utilize to migrate existing instances to a Flexible scale set:
Blue/green or side by side migration
Bring up new Flexible orchestration mode scale set with similar configuration into the same resource group, virtual network, load balancer, etc. as the original scale set in Uniform orchestration mode
Migrate data, network traffic, etc. to use the new scale set instances
Scale down or remove the original Uniform scale set virtual machines, leaving the scale set virtual machines running for your application
Flexible scale sets considerations
Virtual Machine Scale Sets with Flexible orchestration allows you to combine the scalability ofVirtual Machine Scale Sets in Uniform orchestrationwith the regional availability guarantees of availability sets. The following are key considerations when deciding to work with the Flexible orchestration mode.
Create scalable network connectivity
Networking outbound access behavior will vary depending on how you choose to create virtual machines within your scale set.Manually added VM instanceshave default outbound connectivity access.Implicitly created VM instancesdon't have default access.
In order to enhance default network security,virtual machine instances created implicitly via the autoscaling profile don't have default outbound access. In order to use Virtual Machine Scale Sets with implicitly created VM instances, outbound access must be explicitly defined through one of the following methods:
For most scenarios, we recommendNAT Gateway attached to the subnet.
For scenarios with high security requirements or when using Azure Firewall or Network Virtual Appliance (NVA), you can specify a custom User Defined Route as next hop through firewall.
Instances are in the backend pool of a Standard SKU Azure Load Balancer.
Attach a Public IP Address to the instance network interface.
Common scenarios that will require explicit outbound connectivity include:
Windows VM activation will require that you have defined outbound connectivity from the VM instance to the Windows Activation Key Management Service (KMS). For more information, seeTroubleshoot Windows VM activation problems.
Access to storage accounts or Key Vault. Connectivity to Azure services can also be established viaPrivate Link.
Windows updates.
Access to Linux package managers.
For more information, seeDefault outbound access in Azure.
With single instance VMs where you explicitly create the NIC, default outbound access is provided. Virtual Machine Scale Sets in Uniform Orchestration mode also has default outbound connectivity.
Important
Confirm that you have explicit outbound network connectivity. Learn more about this invirtual networks and virtual machines in Azureand make sure you're following Azure's networkingbest practices.
Assign fault domain during VM creation
You can choose the number of fault domains for the Flexible orchestration scale set. By default, when you add a VM to a Flexible scale set, Azure evenly spreads instances across fault domains. While it's recommended to let Azure assign the fault domain, for advanced or troubleshooting scenarios you can override this default behavior and specify the fault domain where the instance will land.
az vm create –vmss "myVMSS"  –-platform_fault_domain 1
az vm create –vmss "myVMSS"  –-platform_fault_domain 1
Instance naming
When you create a VM and add it to a Flexible scale set, you have full control over instance names within the Azure Naming convention rules. When VMs are automatically added to the scale set via autoscaling, you provide a prefix, and Azure appends a unique number to the end of the name.
List scale sets VM API changes
Virtual Machine Scale Sets allows you to list the instances that belong to the scale set. With Flexible orchestration, the list Virtual Machine Scale Sets VM command provides a list of scale sets VM IDs. You can then call the GET Virtual Machine Scale Sets VM commands to get more details on how the scale set is working with the VM instance. To get the full details of the VM, use the standard GET VM commands orAzure Resource Graph.
Query instances for power state
The preferred method is to use Azure Resource Graph to query for all VMs in a Virtual Machine Scale Set. Azure Resource Graph provides efficient query capabilities for Azure resources at scale across subscriptions.
| where type =~ 'Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines'
| where properties.virtualMachineScaleSet contains "demo"
| extend powerState = properties.extended.instanceView.powerState.code
| project name, resourceGroup, location, powerState
| order by resourceGroup desc, name desc
| where type =~ 'Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines'
| where properties.virtualMachineScaleSet contains "demo"
| extend powerState = properties.extended.instanceView.powerState.code
| project name, resourceGroup, location, powerState
| order by resourceGroup desc, name desc
Querying resources withAzure Resource Graphis a convenient and efficient way to query Azure resources and minimizes API calls to the resource provider. Azure Resource Graph is an eventually consistent cache where new or updated resources may not be reflected for up to 60 seconds. You can:
List VMs in a resource group or subscription.
Use the expand option to retrieve the instance view (fault domain assignment, power and provisioning states) for all VMs in your subscription.
Use the Get VM API and commands to get model and instance view for a single instance.
Scale sets VM batch operations
Use the standard VM commands to start, stop, restart, delete instances, instead of the Virtual Machine Scale Set VM APIs. The Virtual Machine Scale Set VM Batch operations (start all, stop all, reimage all, etc.) aren't used with Flexible orchestration mode.
Monitor application health
Application health monitoring allows your application to provide Azure with a heartbeat to determine whether your application is healthy or unhealthy. Azure can automatically replace VM instances that are unhealthy. For Flexible scale set instances, you must install and configure the Application Health Extension on the virtual machine. For Uniform scale set instances, you can use either the Application Health Extension, or measure health with an Azure Load Balancer Custom Health Probe.
Retrieve boot diagnostics data
Use the standard VM APIs and commands to retrieve instance Boot Diagnostics data and screenshots. The Virtual Machine Scale Sets VM boot diagnostic APIs and commands aren't used with Flexible orchestration mode instances.
VM extensions
Use extensions targeted for standard virtual machines, instead of extensions targeted for Uniform orchestration mode instances.
Protect instances from delete
Virtual Machine Scale Sets in Flexible orchestration mode don't currently have instance protection options. If you have autoscale enabled on a Virtual Machine Scale Set, some VMs might be at risk of deletion during the scaling in process. If you want to protect certain VM instances from deletion, useAzure Resource Manager lock.
Next steps
Compare the API differences between Uniform and Flexible orchestration modes.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources