Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure AI Vision?
Article
2025-04-04
5 contributors
In this article
The Azure AI Vision service gives you access to advanced algorithms that process images and return information based on the visual features you're interested in. The following table lists the major product categories.
Azure AI Vision for digital asset management
Azure AI Vision can power many digital asset management (DAM) scenarios. DAM is the business process of organizing, storing, and retrieving rich media assets and managing digital rights and permissions. For example, a company may want to group and identify images based on visible logos, faces, objects, colors, and so on. Or, you might want to automatically generate captions for imagesand attach keywords so they're searchable. For an all-in-one DAM solution using Azure AI services, Azure AI Search, and intelligent reporting, see theKnowledge Mining Solution Accelerator Guideon GitHub. For other DAM examples, see theAzure AI Vision Solution Templatesrepository.
Get started
UseVision Studioto try out Azure AI Vision features quickly in your web browser.
To get started building Azure AI Vision into your app, follow a quickstart.
Quickstart: Optical character recognition (OCR)
Quickstart: Image Analysis
Quickstart: Azure Face
Image requirements
Azure AI Vision can analyze images that meet the following requirements:
The image must be presented in JPEG, PNG, GIF, or BMP format
The file size of the image must be less than 4 megabytes (MB)
The dimensions of the image must be greater than 50 x 50 pixelsFor the Read API, the dimensions of the image must be between 50 x 50 and 10,000 x 10,000 pixels.
For the Read API, the dimensions of the image must be between 50 x 50 and 10,000 x 10,000 pixels.
Data privacy and security
As with all of the Azure AI services, developers using the Azure AI Vision service should be aware of Microsoft's policies on customer data. See theAzure AI services pageon the Microsoft Trust Center to learn more.
Next steps
Follow a quickstart to implement and run a service in your preferred development language.
Quickstart: Optical character recognition (OCR)
Quickstart: Image Analysis
Quickstart: Face
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources