Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Hybrid architecture design
Article
2024-11-11
14 contributors
In this article
Many organizations need a hybrid approach to analytics, automation, and services because their data is hosted both on-premises and in the cloud. Organizations often extend on-premises data solutions to the cloud. To connect environments, organizations start bychoosing a hybrid network architecture.
Learn about hybrid solutions
If you're new to Azure, the best place to start is Microsoft Learn. This free online platform provides interactive training for Microsoft products and more. TheIntroduction to Azure hybrid cloud servicesLearn module helps you build foundational knowledge and understand core concepts.
Browse other hybrid solutions in Microsoft Learn training
Path to production
Explore some options forconnecting an on-premises network to Azure:
Extend an on-premises network using VPN
Connect an on-premises network to Azure using ExpressRoute
Best practices
When you adopt a hybrid model, you can choose from multiple solutions to confidently deliver hybrid workloads. See these documents for information on running Azure data services anywhere, modernizing applications anywhere, and managing your workloads anywhere:
Azure hybrid options
Azure Arc hybrid management and deployment for Kubernetes clusters
Use Azure file shares
Back up files
Monitor performance
Enable virtual machine protection in Azure Site Recovery
Additional resources
The typical hybrid solution journey ranges from learning how to get started with a hybrid architecture to how to use Azure services in hybrid environments. However, you might also just be looking for additional reference and supporting material to help along the way for your specific situation. See these resources for general information on hybrid architectures:
Browse hybrid and multicloud architectures
Troubleshoot a hybrid VPN connection
Example solutions
Here are some example implementations to consider:
Cross-cloud scaling
Hybrid connections
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources