Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Connect to eventing and messaging services from Azure Functions
Article
2022-11-11
2 contributors
In this article
As a cloud computing service, Azure Functions is frequently used to move data between various Azure services. To make it easier for you to connect your code to other services, Functions implements a set of binding extensions to connect to these services. To learn more, seeAzure Functions triggers and bindings concepts.
By definition, Azure Functions executions are stateless. If you need to connect your code to services in a more stateful way, consider instead usingDurable FunctionsorAzure Logic Apps.
Triggers and bindings are provided to consuming and emitting data easier. There may be cases where you need more control over the service connection, or you just feel more comfortable using a client library provided by a service SDK. In those cases, you can use a client instance from the SDK in your function execution to access the service as you normally would. When using a client directly, you need to pay attention to the effect of scale and performance on client connections. To learn more, see theguidance on using static clients.
You can't obtain the client instance used by a service binding from your function execution.
The rest of this article provides specific guidance for integrating your code with the specific Azure services supported by Functions.
Event Grid
Event Grid is an Azure service that sends HTTP requests to notify you about events that happen in publishers. Apublisheris the service or resource that originates the event. For example, an Azure blob storage account is a publisher, anda blob upload or deletion is an event. SomeAzure services have built-in support for publishing events to Event Grid.
Eventhandlersreceive and process events. Azure Functions is one of severalAzure services that have built-in support for handling Event Grid events. Functions provides an Event Grid trigger, which invokes a function when an event is received from Event Grid. A similar output binding can be used to send events from your function to anEvent Grid custom topic.
You can also use an HTTP trigger to handle Event Grid Events. To learn more, seeReceive events to an HTTP endpoint. We recommend using the Event Grid trigger over HTTP trigger.
Azure Functions provides built-in integration with Azure Event Grid by usingtriggers and bindings.
To learn how to configure and locally evaluate your Event Grid trigger and bindings, seeHow to work with Event Grid triggers and bindings in Azure Functions
For more information about Event Grid trigger and output binding definitions and examples, see one of the following reference articles:
Azure Event Grid bindings for Azure Functions
Azure Event Grid trigger for Azure Functions
Azure Event Grid output binding for Azure Functions
Next steps
To learn more about Event Grid with Functions, see the following articles:
Azure Event Grid bindings for Azure Functions
Tutorial: Automate resizing uploaded images using Event Grid
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources