Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Storage options for FSLogix profile containers in Azure Virtual Desktop
Article
2024-12-13
15 contributors
In this article
Azure offers multiple storage solutions that you can use to store your FSLogix profile container. This article compares storage solutions that Azure offers for Azure Virtual Desktop FSLogix user profile containers. We recommend storing FSLogix profile containers on Azure Files for most of our customers.
Azure Virtual Desktop offers FSLogix profile containers as the recommended user profile solution. FSLogix is designed to roam profiles in remote computing environments, such as Azure Virtual Desktop. At sign-in, this container is dynamically attached to the computing environment using a natively supported Virtual Hard Disk (VHD) and a Hyper-V Virtual Hard Disk (VHDX). The user profile is immediately available and appears in the system exactly like a native user profile. All FSLogix containers can be stored on file shares that support the SMB protocol.
The following tables compare the storage solutions Azure Storage offers for Azure Virtual Desktop FSLogix profile container user profiles.
Azure platform details
Azure management details
Once you've chosen your storage method, check outAzure Virtual Desktop pricingfor information about our pricing plans.
Azure Files tiers
Azure Files offers two different tiers of storage: premium and standard. These tiers let you tailor the performance and cost of your file shares to meet your scenario's requirements.
Premium file shares are backed by solid-state drives (SSDs) and are deployed in the FileStorage storage account type. Premium file shares provide consistent high performance and low latency for input and output (IO) intensive workloads. Premium file shares use a provisioned billing model, where you pay for the amount of storage you would like your file share to have, regardless of how much you use.
Premium file shares are backed by solid-state drives (SSDs) and are deployed in the FileStorage storage account type. Premium file shares provide consistent high performance and low latency for input and output (IO) intensive workloads. Premium file shares use a provisioned billing model, where you pay for the amount of storage you would like your file share to have, regardless of how much you use.
Standard file shares are backed by hard disk drives (HDDs) and are deployed in the general purpose version 2 (GPv2) storage account type. Standard file shares provide reliable performance for IO workloads that are less sensitive to performance variability, such as general-purpose file shares and dev/test environments. Standard file shares use a pay-as-you-go billing model, where you pay based on storage usage, including data stored and transactions.
Standard file shares are backed by hard disk drives (HDDs) and are deployed in the general purpose version 2 (GPv2) storage account type. Standard file shares provide reliable performance for IO workloads that are less sensitive to performance variability, such as general-purpose file shares and dev/test environments. Standard file shares use a pay-as-you-go billing model, where you pay based on storage usage, including data stored and transactions.
To learn more about how billing works in Azure Files, seeUnderstand Azure Files billing.
The following table lists our recommendations for which performance tier to use based on your workload. These recommendations will help you select the performance tier that meets your performance targets, budget, and regional considerations. We've based these recommendations on the example scenarios fromRemote Desktop workload types.
For more information about Azure Files performance, seeFile share and file scale targets. For more information about pricing, seeAzure Files pricing.
Azure NetApp Files tiers
Azure NetApp Files volumes are organized in capacity pools. Volume performance is defined by the service level of the hosting capacity pool. Three performance levels are offered, ultra, premium and standard. For more information, seeStorage hierarchy of Azure NetApp Files. Azure NetApp Files performance isa function of tier times capacity. More provisioned capacity leads to higher performance budget, which likely results in a lower tier requirement, providing a more optimal TCO.
The following table lists our recommendations for which performance tier to use based on workload defaults.
In order to provision the optimal tier and volume size, consider usingthis calculatorfor guidance.
Next steps
To learn more about FSLogix profile containers, user profile disks, and other user profile technologies, see the table inUser profile management for Azure Virtual Desktop with FSLogix profile containers.
If you're ready to create your own FSLogix profile containers, get started with one of these tutorials:
Set up FSLogix Profile Container with Azure Files and Active Directory
Set up FSLogix Profile Container with Azure NetApp Files
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources