Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Scaling
Article
2024-11-19
4 contributors
Applies to: ✅ Azure Cache for Redis
In this article
Scaling under load
While scaling a cache under load, configure yourmaxmemory-reservedsetting to improve system responsiveness. For more information, seeConfigure your maxmemory-reserved setting.
maxmemory-reserved
Scaling clusters
Try reducing data as much as you can in the cache before scaling your clustered cache in or out. Reducing data ensures smaller amounts of data have to be moved, which reduces the time required for the scale operation. For more information on when to scale, seeWhen to scale.
Scale before load is too high
Start scaling before the server load or memory usage gets too high. If it's too high, that means Redis server is busy. The busy Redis server doesn't have enough resources to scale and redistribute data.
Cache sizes
If you're using TLS and you have a high number of connections, consider scaling out so that you can distribute the load over more cores. Some cache sizes are hosted on VMs with four or more cores. By distributing the workloads across multiple cores, you help bring down overall CPU usage on the cache VMs. For more information, seedetails around VM sizes and cores.
Scaling and memory
You can scale your cache instances in the Azure portal. Also, you can programmatically scale your cache using PowerShell cmdlets, Azure CLI, and by using the Microsoft Azure Management Libraries (MAML).
When you scale a cache up or down in the portal, bothmaxmemory-reservedandmaxfragmentationmemory-reservedsettings automatically scale in proportion to the cache size. For example, ifmaxmemory-reservedis set to 3 GB on a 6-GB cache, and you scale to 12-GB cache, the settings automatically updated to 6 GB during scaling. When you scale down, the reverse happens.
maxmemory-reserved
maxfragmentationmemory-reserved
maxmemory-reserved
When you scale a cache up or down programmatically, using PowerShell, CLI or Rest API, anymaxmemory-reservedormaxfragmentationmemory-reservedare ignored as part of the update request. Only your scaling change is honored. You can update these memory settings after the scaling operation has completed.
maxmemory-reserved
maxfragmentationmemory-reserved
For more information on scaling and memory, depending on your tier see either:
How to scale - Basic, Standard, and Premium tiers, or
How to scale up and out - Enterprise and Enterprise Flash tiers.
Note
When you scale a cache up or down programmatically, anymaxmemory-reservedormaxfragmentationmemory-reservedare ignored as part of the update request. Only your scaling change is honored. You can update these memory settings after the scaling operation has completed.
maxmemory-reserved
maxfragmentationmemory-reserved
Minimizing your data helps scaling complete quicker
If preserving the data in the cache isn't a requirement, consider flushing the data prior to scaling. Flushing the cache helps the scaling operation complete more quickly so the new capacity is available sooner. See more details onhow to initiate flush operation.
Next steps
Configure your maxmemory-reserved setting
Scale an Azure Cache for Redis instance
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources