Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Prepay for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server compute resources with reserved instances
Article
2024-12-02
4 contributors
In this article
Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server now helps you save money by prepaying for compute resources compared to pay-as-you-go prices. With Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server reserved instances, you make an upfront commitment on Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server for a one or three year period to get a significant discount on the compute costs. To purchase Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server reserved capacity, you need to specify the Azure region, deployment type, performance tier, and term.
How does the instance reservation work?
You don't need to assign the reservation to specific Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instances. An already running Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instance or ones that are newly deployed automatically get the benefit of reserved pricing. By purchasing a reservation, you're pre-paying for the compute costs for one or three years. As soon as you buy a reservation, the Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server compute charges that match the reservation attributes are no longer charged at the pay-as-you go rates. A reservation doesn't cover software, networking, or storage charges associated with Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server. At the end of the reservation term, the billing benefit expires, and Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server is billed at the pay-as-you go price. Reservations don't auto-renew. For pricing information, see theAzure Database for MySQL Flexible Server reserved capacity offering.
You can buy Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server reserved capacity in theAzure portal. Pay for the reservationup front or with monthly payments. To buy the reserved capacity:
To buy a reservation, you must have owner role or reservation purchaser role on an Azure subscription.
For Enterprise subscriptions,Add Reserved Instancesmust be enabled in theEA portal. Or, if that setting is disabled, you must be an EA Admin on the subscription.
For Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program, only the admin agents or sales agents can purchase Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server reserved capacity.
The details on how enterprise customers and pay-as-you-go customers are charged for reservation purchases, seeunderstand Azure reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollmentandunderstand Azure reservation usage for your pay-as-you-go subscription.
Reservation exchanges and refunds
You can exchange a reservation for another reservation of the same type. You can also exchange a reservation from Azure Database for MySQL - Single Server with one for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server. It's also possible to refund a reservation, if you no longer need it. The Azure portal can be used to exchange or refund a reservation. For more information, seeSelf-service exchanges and refunds for Azure Reservations.
Reservation discount
You might save up to 67% on compute costs with reserved instances. In order to find the discount for your case, visit theReservation page on the Azure portaland check the savings per pricing tier and per region. Reserved instances help you manage your workloads, budget, and forecast better with an upfront payment for a one-year or three-year term. You can also exchange or cancel reservations as business needs change.
Determine the right database size before purchase
The size of reservation should be based on the total amount of compute used by the existing or soon-to-be-deployed server within a specific region and using the same performance tier and hardware generation.
For example, let's suppose that you're running one general purpose, Gen5 – 32 vCore Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server database, and two memory optimized, Gen5 – 16 vCore Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server databases. Further, let's supposed that you plan to deploy within the next month an additional general purpose, Gen5 – 32 vCore database server, and one memory optimized, Gen5 – 16 vCore database server. Let's suppose that you know that you need these resources for at least 1 year. In this case, you should purchase a 64 (2x32) vCores, 1 year reservation for single database general purpose - Gen5 and a 48 (2x16 + 16) vCore 1 year reservation for single database memory optimized - Gen5.
Buy Azure Database for MySQL reserved capacity
Sign in to theAzure portal.
SelectAll services>Reservations.
SelectAddand then in the Purchase reservations pane, selectAzure Database for MySQLto purchase a new reservation for your Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server databases.
Fill in the required fields. Existing or new databases that match the attributes you select qualify to get the reserved capacity discount. The actual number of your Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instances that get the discount depend on the scope and quantity selected.

The following table describes required fields.
Reserved instances API support
Use Azure APIs to programmatically get information for your organization about Azure service or software reservations. For example, use the APIs to:
Find reservations to buy
Buy a reservation
View purchased reservations
View and manage reservation access
Split or merge reservations
Change the scope of reservations
For more information, seeAPIs for Azure reservation automation.
vCore size flexibility
vCore size flexibility helps you scale up or down within a performance tier and region, without losing the reserved capacity benefit.
How to view reserved instance purchase details
You can view your reserved instance purchase details via theReservations menu on the left side of the Azure portal. For more information, seeHow a reservation discount is applied to Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server.
Reserved instance expiration
You receive email notifications, the first one 30 days prior to reservation expiry and the other one at expiration. Once the reservation expires, deployed VMs continue to run and be billed at a pay-as-you-go rate. For more information, seeReserved Instances for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server.
Need help? Contact us
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Related content
What are Azure Reservations
Manage Azure Reservations
Understand Azure Reservations discount
Understand reservation usage for your pay-as-you-go subscription
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment
Azure Reservations in Partner Center Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources