Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is a network group in Azure Virtual Network Manager?
Article
2024-06-10
6 contributors
In this article
In this article, you learn aboutnetwork groupsand how they can help you group virtual networks together for easier management. Also, you learn aboutStatic group membershipandDynamic group membershipand how to use each type of membership.
Network group
Anetwork groupis global container that includes a set of virtual network resources from any region. Then, configurations are applied to target the network group, which applies the configuration to all members of the group.
Group membership
Group membership is a many-to-many relationship, such that one group holds many virtual networks and any given virtual network can participate in multiple network groups. As part of a network group, the virtual network receives any configurations applied to the group and deployed to the virtual networks region.
A virtual network can be set to join a network group in multiple ways. The two types are group memberships arestaticanddynamicmemberships.
Static membership
Static membership allows you to explicitly add virtual networks to a group by manually selecting individual virtual networks. The list of virtual networks is dependent on the scope (management group or subscription) defined at the time of the Azure Virtual Network Manager deployment. This method is useful when you have a few virtual networks you want to add to the network group. Static membership also allows you to 'patch' the network group contents by adding or removing a virtual network from the group.
Dynamic membership
Dynamic membership gives you the flexibility of selecting multiple virtual networks at scale if they meet the conditional statements you defined in Azure Policy. This membership type is useful for scenarios where you have large number of virtual networks, or if membership is dictated by a condition instead of an explicit list. Learn aboutHow Azure Policy works with Network Groups.
Membership visibility
All group membership is recorded in Azure Resource Graph and available for your use. Each virtual network receives a single entry in the graph. This entry specifies all the groups the virtual network is a member of, and what contributing sources are responsible for that membership, such as static members or various policy resources. Learn how toview applied configurations.
Network groups and Azure Policy
When you create a network group, an Azure Policy is created so that Azure Virtual Network Manager gets notified about changes made to virtual network membership.
To create, edit, or delete Azure Virtual Network Manager dynamic group policies, you need:
Read and write role-based access control permissions to the underlying policy.
Role-based access control permissions to join the network group (Classic Admin authorization isn't supported).
For more information on required permissions for Azure Virtual Network Manager dynamic group policies, reviewrequired permissions.
Next steps
Create anAzure Virtual Network Managerinstance using the Azure portal
Learn how to create aHub and spoke topologywith Azure Virtual Network Manager
Learn how to block network traffic with aSecurity admin configuration
ReviewAzure Policy basics
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources