Azure Local storage switchless architecture
This article is part of a series that builds on theAzure Local baseline reference architecture. To effectively deploy Azure Local using astorage switchlessdesign, it's important to understand the baseline architecture. This process includes familiarizing yourself with the cluster design choices for the physical nodes that deliver local compute, storage, and networking capabilities. This knowledge helps you identify the necessary changes for a successful deployment. The guidance in this article applies totwo-node, three-node or four-node storage switchlessdeployments, with a requirement that you make necessary adjustments based on the number of physical nodes in the instance, which can range betweentwo nodesandfour nodesin scale.
The storage switchless network design removes the requirement for storage class network switches to connect the network adapter ports that are used for storage traffic. Instead, nodes are directly connected by using interlink Ethernet cables. This configuration is commonly used in retail, manufacturing, or remote office scenarios. This configuration is also suitable for smaller edge use cases that don't have or require extensive datacenter network switches for storage replication traffic.
This reference architecture provides workload-agnostic guidance and recommendations for configuring Azure Local as a resilient infrastructure platform to deploy and manage virtualized workloads. For more information about workload architecture patterns that are optimized to run on Azure Local, see the content located under theAzure Local workloadsnavigation menu.
This architecture is a starting point for anAzure Local instance that uses a storage switchless networking design. Workload applications that are deployed on an Azure Local instance should be well architected. This approach includes deploying multiple instances for high availability of any critical workload services and implementing appropriate business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) controls, such as regular backups and DR failover capabilities. To focus on the HCI infrastructure platform, these workload design aspects are intentionally excluded from this article. For more information about guidelines and recommendations for the five pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, see theAzure Local Well-Architected Framework service guide.
Article layout
Tip
Thisreference implementationdescribes how to deploy athree-node storage switchless Azure Local instanceusing an ARM template and parameter file.
Architecture

Diagram that illustrates a three-node Azure Local instance that uses a switchless storage architecture and has dual Top-of-Rack (ToR) switches for external (north-south) connectivity. Azure Local uses several Azure services, including Azure Arc, Key Vault, Azure Storage, Azure Update Manager, Azure Monitor, Azure Policy, Microsoft Defender, Azure Backup, Extended Security Updates, and Azure Site Recovery.

For more information about these resources, seeRelated resources.
Potential use cases
Use this design and the designs described in theAzure Local baseline reference architectureto address the following use case requirements:
Deploy and manage highly available (HA) virtualized or container-based edge workloads that are deployed in a single location to enable business-critical applications and services to operate in a resilient, cost-effective, and scalable manner.
Deploy and manage highly available (HA) virtualized or container-based edge workloads that are deployed in a single location to enable business-critical applications and services to operate in a resilient, cost-effective, and scalable manner.
The storage switchless network design removes the requirement to deploy storage class network switches to connect the network adapter ports that are used for the storage traffic.
The storage switchless network design removes the requirement to deploy storage class network switches to connect the network adapter ports that are used for the storage traffic.
You can use the storage switchless network design to help reduce the costs associated with the procurement and configuration of storage class network switches for storage traffic, but it does increase the number of network adapter ports required in the physical machines.
You can use the storage switchless network design to help reduce the costs associated with the procurement and configuration of storage class network switches for storage traffic, but it does increase the number of network adapter ports required in the physical machines.
Architecture components
The architecture resources remain mostly unchanged from the baseline reference architecture. For more information, see theplatform resources and platform supporting resourcesused for Azure Local deployments.
Cluster design choices
For guidance and recommendations for your Azure Local instance design choices, refer to thebaseline reference architecture. Use these insights and theAzure Local Sizer Toolto appropriately scale an Azure Local instance according to the workload requirements.
When you use the storage switchless design, it's crucial to remember that four nodes is the maximum instance size supported. This limitation is a key consideration for your instance design choices because you must ensure that your workload's capacity requirements don't exceed the physical capacity capabilities of the four-node instance specifications. Because you can't perform an add-node gesture to expand a storage switchless instance beyond four nodes, it'scritically importantto understand your workload capacity requirements beforehand and plan for future growth. This way you can ensure that your workload doesn't exceed the storage and compute capacity over the expected lifespan of the Azure Local instance hardware.
Caution
The maximum supported instance size for the storage switchless network architecture is four physical nodes (machines). Be sure to consider this limit during the instance design phase, such as including the present and future growth capacity requirements for your workload.
Network design
Network design refers to the overall arrangement of physical and logical components within the network. In a three-node storage switchless configuration for Azure Local, three physical nodes are directly connected without using an external switch for storage traffic. These direct interlinked ethernet connections simplify network design by reducing complexity because there's no requirement to define or apply storage quality of service and prioritization configurations on the switches. The technologies that underpin lossless RDMA communication, such as explicit congestion notification (ECN), priority flow control (PFC), or quality of service (QoS) that are required for RoCE v2 and iWARP, aren't needed. However, this configuration supports a maximum of four machines, which means you can't scale the instance by adding more nodes after deployment, for an existing four node storage switchless instance.
Note
This three-node storage switchless architecture requiressix network adapter portsto provide redundant links for all network intents. Take this into consideration if you plan to use asmall form-factor hardwareSKU, or if there is limited physical space in the server chassis for extra network cards. Consult your preferred hardware manufacturer partner for more information.
Afour-node storage switchlessAzure Local instance with dual links would requireeight network adapter portsper node; six ports for the storage intent, and two ports for the management and compute intent.
The physical network topology shows the actual physical connections between nodes and networking components. The connections between nodes and networking components for a three-node storage switchless Azure Local deployment are:
Three nodes (or nodes):Each node is a physical server that runs on Azure Stack HCI OS.Each node requires six network adapter ports in total: four RDMA-capable ports for storage and two ports for management and compute.
Three nodes (or nodes):
Each node is a physical server that runs on Azure Stack HCI OS.
Each node is a physical server that runs on Azure Stack HCI OS.
Each node requires six network adapter ports in total: four RDMA-capable ports for storage and two ports for management and compute.
Each node requires six network adapter ports in total: four RDMA-capable ports for storage and two ports for management and compute.
Storage traffic:Each of the three nodes is interconnected through dual dedicated physical network adapter ports for storage. The following diagram illustrates this process.The storage network adapter ports connect directly to each node by using Ethernet cables to form a full mesh network architecture for the storage traffic.This design provides link redundancy, dedicated low latency, high bandwidth, and high throughput.Nodes within the Azure Local instance communicate directly through these links to handle storage replication traffic, also known as east-west traffic.This direct communication eliminates the need for extra network switch ports for storage and removes the requirement to apply QoS or PFC configuration for SMB Direct or RDMA traffic on the network switches.Check with your hardware manufacturer partner or network interface card (NIC) vendor for any recommended OS drivers, firmware versions, or firmware settings for the switchless interconnect network configuration.
Storage traffic:
Each of the three nodes is interconnected through dual dedicated physical network adapter ports for storage. The following diagram illustrates this process.
Each of the three nodes is interconnected through dual dedicated physical network adapter ports for storage. The following diagram illustrates this process.
The storage network adapter ports connect directly to each node by using Ethernet cables to form a full mesh network architecture for the storage traffic.
The storage network adapter ports connect directly to each node by using Ethernet cables to form a full mesh network architecture for the storage traffic.
This design provides link redundancy, dedicated low latency, high bandwidth, and high throughput.
This design provides link redundancy, dedicated low latency, high bandwidth, and high throughput.
Nodes within the Azure Local instance communicate directly through these links to handle storage replication traffic, also known as east-west traffic.
Nodes within the Azure Local instance communicate directly through these links to handle storage replication traffic, also known as east-west traffic.
This direct communication eliminates the need for extra network switch ports for storage and removes the requirement to apply QoS or PFC configuration for SMB Direct or RDMA traffic on the network switches.
This direct communication eliminates the need for extra network switch ports for storage and removes the requirement to apply QoS or PFC configuration for SMB Direct or RDMA traffic on the network switches.
Check with your hardware manufacturer partner or network interface card (NIC) vendor for any recommended OS drivers, firmware versions, or firmware settings for the switchless interconnect network configuration.
Check with your hardware manufacturer partner or network interface card (NIC) vendor for any recommended OS drivers, firmware versions, or firmware settings for the switchless interconnect network configuration.
Dual Top-of-Rack (ToR) switches:This configuration isswitchlessfor storage traffic but still requires ToR switches for the external connectivity. This connectivity is called north-south traffic and includes the clustermanagementintent and the workloadcomputeintents.The uplinks to the switches from each node use two network adapter ports. Ethernet cables connect these ports, one to each ToR switch, to provide link redundancy.We recommend that you use dual ToR switches to provide redundancy for servicing operations and load balancing for external communication.
Dual Top-of-Rack (ToR) switches:
This configuration isswitchlessfor storage traffic but still requires ToR switches for the external connectivity. This connectivity is called north-south traffic and includes the clustermanagementintent and the workloadcomputeintents.
This configuration isswitchlessfor storage traffic but still requires ToR switches for the external connectivity. This connectivity is called north-south traffic and includes the clustermanagementintent and the workloadcomputeintents.
The uplinks to the switches from each node use two network adapter ports. Ethernet cables connect these ports, one to each ToR switch, to provide link redundancy.
The uplinks to the switches from each node use two network adapter ports. Ethernet cables connect these ports, one to each ToR switch, to provide link redundancy.
We recommend that you use dual ToR switches to provide redundancy for servicing operations and load balancing for external communication.
We recommend that you use dual ToR switches to provide redundancy for servicing operations and load balancing for external communication.
External connectivity:The dual ToR switches connect to the external network, such as the internal corporate LAN, and use your edge border network device, such as a firewall or router, to provide access to the required outbound URLs.The two ToR switches handle the north-south traffic for the Azure Local instance, including traffic related to management and compute intents.
External connectivity:
The dual ToR switches connect to the external network, such as the internal corporate LAN, and use your edge border network device, such as a firewall or router, to provide access to the required outbound URLs.
The dual ToR switches connect to the external network, such as the internal corporate LAN, and use your edge border network device, such as a firewall or router, to provide access to the required outbound URLs.
The two ToR switches handle the north-south traffic for the Azure Local instance, including traffic related to management and compute intents.
The two ToR switches handle the north-south traffic for the Azure Local instance, including traffic related to management and compute intents.

The logical network topology provides an overview for how the network data flows between devices, regardless of their physical connections. The following list summarizes the logical setup for a three-node storage switchless Azure Local instance:
Dual ToR switches:Before cluster deployment, the two ToR network switches need to be configured with the required VLAN IDs and maximum transmission unit (MTU) settings for the management and compute ports. For more information, see thephysical network requirementsor ask your switch hardware vendor or systems integrator (SI) partner for assistance.
Dual ToR switches:
Before cluster deployment, the two ToR network switches need to be configured with the required VLAN IDs and maximum transmission unit (MTU) settings for the management and compute ports. For more information, see thephysical network requirementsor ask your switch hardware vendor or systems integrator (SI) partner for assistance.
Azure Local applies network automation andintent-based network configurationusing theNetwork ATC service.Network ATC is designed to ensure optimal networking configuration and traffic flow using network trafficintents. Network ATC defines which physical network adapter ports are used for the different network traffic intents (or types), such as for the clustermanagement, workloadcompute, and clusterstorageintents.Intent-based policies simplify the network configuration requirements by automating the node network configuration based on parameter inputs that are specified as part of the Azure Local cloud deployment process.
Azure Local applies network automation andintent-based network configurationusing theNetwork ATC service.
Network ATC is designed to ensure optimal networking configuration and traffic flow using network trafficintents. Network ATC defines which physical network adapter ports are used for the different network traffic intents (or types), such as for the clustermanagement, workloadcompute, and clusterstorageintents.
Network ATC is designed to ensure optimal networking configuration and traffic flow using network trafficintents. Network ATC defines which physical network adapter ports are used for the different network traffic intents (or types), such as for the clustermanagement, workloadcompute, and clusterstorageintents.
Intent-based policies simplify the network configuration requirements by automating the node network configuration based on parameter inputs that are specified as part of the Azure Local cloud deployment process.
Intent-based policies simplify the network configuration requirements by automating the node network configuration based on parameter inputs that are specified as part of the Azure Local cloud deployment process.
External communication:When the nodes or workload need to communicate externally by accessing the corporate LAN, internet, or another service, they route using the dual ToR switches. This process is described in the previousPhysical network topologysection.When the two ToR switches act as Layer 3 devices, they handle routing and provide connectivity beyond the cluster to the edge border device, such as your firewall or router.Management network intent uses the Converged Switch Embedded Teaming (SET) virtual interface, which enables the cluster management IP address and control plane resources to communicate externally.For the compute network intent, you can create one or more logical networks in Azure with the specific VLAN IDs for your environment. The workload resources, such as virtual machines (VMs), use these IDs to give access to the physical network. The logical networks use the two physical network adapter ports that are converged using SET for the compute and management intents.
External communication:
When the nodes or workload need to communicate externally by accessing the corporate LAN, internet, or another service, they route using the dual ToR switches. This process is described in the previousPhysical network topologysection.
When the nodes or workload need to communicate externally by accessing the corporate LAN, internet, or another service, they route using the dual ToR switches. This process is described in the previousPhysical network topologysection.
When the two ToR switches act as Layer 3 devices, they handle routing and provide connectivity beyond the cluster to the edge border device, such as your firewall or router.
When the two ToR switches act as Layer 3 devices, they handle routing and provide connectivity beyond the cluster to the edge border device, such as your firewall or router.
Management network intent uses the Converged Switch Embedded Teaming (SET) virtual interface, which enables the cluster management IP address and control plane resources to communicate externally.
Management network intent uses the Converged Switch Embedded Teaming (SET) virtual interface, which enables the cluster management IP address and control plane resources to communicate externally.
For the compute network intent, you can create one or more logical networks in Azure with the specific VLAN IDs for your environment. The workload resources, such as virtual machines (VMs), use these IDs to give access to the physical network. The logical networks use the two physical network adapter ports that are converged using SET for the compute and management intents.
For the compute network intent, you can create one or more logical networks in Azure with the specific VLAN IDs for your environment. The workload resources, such as virtual machines (VMs), use these IDs to give access to the physical network. The logical networks use the two physical network adapter ports that are converged using SET for the compute and management intents.
Storage traffic:The nodes communicate with each other directly for storage traffic using the four direct interconnect ethernet ports per node, which use six separate nonroutable (or Layer 2) networks for the storage traffic.There'sno default gatewayconfigured on the four storage intent network adapter ports within the Azure Stack HCI OS.Each node can access S2D capabilities of the cluster, such as remote physical disks that are used in the storage pool, virtual disks, and volumes. Access to these capabilities is facilitated through the SMB Direct RDMA protocol over the two dedicated storage network adapter ports that are available in each node. SMB Multichannel is used for resiliency.This configuration ensures sufficient data transfer speed for storage-related operations, such as maintaining consistent copies of data for mirrored volumes.Diagram that shows the logical networking topology for a three-node Azure Local instance. It uses a switchless storage architecture with dual ToR switches for external (or north-south) connectivity.
Storage traffic:
The nodes communicate with each other directly for storage traffic using the four direct interconnect ethernet ports per node, which use six separate nonroutable (or Layer 2) networks for the storage traffic.
The nodes communicate with each other directly for storage traffic using the four direct interconnect ethernet ports per node, which use six separate nonroutable (or Layer 2) networks for the storage traffic.
There'sno default gatewayconfigured on the four storage intent network adapter ports within the Azure Stack HCI OS.
There'sno default gatewayconfigured on the four storage intent network adapter ports within the Azure Stack HCI OS.
Each node can access S2D capabilities of the cluster, such as remote physical disks that are used in the storage pool, virtual disks, and volumes. Access to these capabilities is facilitated through the SMB Direct RDMA protocol over the two dedicated storage network adapter ports that are available in each node. SMB Multichannel is used for resiliency.
Each node can access S2D capabilities of the cluster, such as remote physical disks that are used in the storage pool, virtual disks, and volumes. Access to these capabilities is facilitated through the SMB Direct RDMA protocol over the two dedicated storage network adapter ports that are available in each node. SMB Multichannel is used for resiliency.
This configuration ensures sufficient data transfer speed for storage-related operations, such as maintaining consistent copies of data for mirrored volumes.Diagram that shows the logical networking topology for a three-node Azure Local instance. It uses a switchless storage architecture with dual ToR switches for external (or north-south) connectivity.
This configuration ensures sufficient data transfer speed for storage-related operations, such as maintaining consistent copies of data for mirrored volumes.

Diagram that shows the logical networking topology for a three-node Azure Local instance. It uses a switchless storage architecture with dual ToR switches for external (or north-south) connectivity.

To deploy a three-node storage switchless configuration of Azure Local with dual links for the storage interconnects, the cluster infrastructure platform requires that you allocate a minimum of 20 x IP addresses. More IP addresses are required if you use a VM appliance supplied by your hardware manufacturer partner, or if you use microsegmentation or software defined networking (SDN). For more information, seeReview the three-node storage reference pattern IP requirements for Azure Local.
When you design and plan IP address requirements for Azure Local, remember to account for additional IP addresses or network ranges needed for your workload beyond the ones that are required for the Azure Local instance and infrastructure components. If you plan to use Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS) on Azure Local, seeAKS enabled by Azure Arc network requirements.
Considerations
These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, seeMicrosoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.
Important
Review the Well-Architected Framework considerations described in theAzure Local baseline reference architecture.
Cost Optimization
Cost Optimization is about looking at ways to reduce unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Cost Optimization.
Cost optimization considerations include:
Switchless cluster interconnects versus switch-based cluster interconnects. The switchless interconnect topology consists of connections between dual port RDMA-capable network adapters in each node to form a full mesh. Each node has two direct connections to every other node. Although this implementation is straightforward, it's only supported in two-node, three-node or four-node instances. An Azure Local instance with five or more nodes requires thestorage switchednetwork architecture. You can use this architecture to add more nodes after deployment, unlike the storage switchless design that doesn't support add-node operations.
Performance Efficiency
Performance Efficiency is the ability of your workload to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. For more information, seeDesign review checklist for Performance Efficiency.
Performance efficiency considerations include:
Review thesupported scenarios for add-nodeoperations for Azure Local, specifically the storage network architecture requirement when increasing the scale (add-node) of an existing Azure Local instance. The capacity planning aspect of your design phase is critically important when using the storage switchless architecture, if you are unable to add additional nodes post-cluster deployment.
Review thesupported scenarios for add-nodeoperations for Azure Local, specifically the storage network architecture requirement when increasing the scale (add-node) of an existing Azure Local instance. The capacity planning aspect of your design phase is critically important when using the storage switchless architecture, if you are unable to add additional nodes post-cluster deployment.
You can't increase the scale (or perform an add-node operation) of an existing four-node storage switchless Azure Local instance without redeploying the instance and adding extra networking capabilities such as network switches, ports, and cables for storage traffic, and the other required machines. Four nodes is the maximum supported instance size for the storage switchless network design. Factor this limitation into the instance design phase to ensure that the hardware can support future workload capacity growth.
You can't increase the scale (or perform an add-node operation) of an existing four-node storage switchless Azure Local instance without redeploying the instance and adding extra networking capabilities such as network switches, ports, and cables for storage traffic, and the other required machines. Four nodes is the maximum supported instance size for the storage switchless network design. Factor this limitation into the instance design phase to ensure that the hardware can support future workload capacity growth.
Review thesupported scenarios for add-nodeoperations for Azure Local, specifically the storage network architecture requirement when increasing the scale (adding nodes) of an existing Azure Local instance. The capacity planning aspect of your design phase is critically important when using the storage switchless architecture, if you are unable to add additional nodes post-cluster deployment.
Review thesupported scenarios for add-nodeoperations for Azure Local, specifically the storage network architecture requirement when increasing the scale (adding nodes) of an existing Azure Local instance. The capacity planning aspect of your design phase is critically important when using the storage switchless architecture, if you are unable to add additional nodes post-cluster deployment.
Deploy this scenario
For more information about how to design, procure, and deploy an Azure Local solution, see theDeploy this scenariosection of theAzure Local baseline reference architecture.
Use the following deployment automation template as an example of how to deploy Azure Local using the three-node storage switchless architecture.
Tip
Deployment automation: Thisreference templatedescribes how to deploy athree-node storage switchless Azure Local solutionusing an ARM template and parameter file.
Related resources
Hybrid architecture design
Azure hybrid options
Azure Automation in a hybrid environment
Azure Automation State Configuration
Optimize administration of SQL Server instances in on-premises and multicloud environments using Azure Arc
Next steps
Product documentation:
Azure Stack HCI OS, version 23H2 release information
AKS on Azure Local
Azure Virtual Desktop for Azure Local
What is Azure Local monitoring?
Protect VM workloads with Site Recovery on Azure Local
Azure Monitor overview
Change Tracking and Inventory overview
Azure Update Manager overview
What are Azure Arc-enabled data services?
What are Azure Arc-enabled servers?
What is Azure Backup?
Introduction to Kubernetes compute target in Azure Machine Learning
Product documentation for specific Azure services:
Azure Local
Azure Arc
Azure Key Vault
Azure Blob Storage
Monitor
Azure Policy
Azure Container Registry
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Azure Site Recovery
Backup
Microsoft Learn modules:
Configure Monitor
Design your site recovery solution in Azure
Introduction to Azure Arc-enabled servers
Introduction to Azure Arc-enabled data services
Introduction to AKS
Scale model deployment with Azure Machine Learning anywhere - Tech Community Blog
Realizing Machine Learning anywhere with AKS and Arc-enabled machine learning - Tech Community Blog
Machine learning on AKS hybrid and Stack HCI using Azure Arc-enabled machine learning - Tech Community Blog
Keep your virtual machines updated
Protect your virtual machine settings with Azure Automation State Configuration
Protect your VMs by using Backup