Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure Monitor Agent overview
Article
2025-01-29
23 contributors
In this article
The Azure Monitor Agent collects monitoring data from the guest operating system of Azure and hybrid virtual machines (VMs). It delivers the data to Azure Monitor for use by features, insights, and other services, such asMicrosoft SentinelandMicrosoft Defender for Cloud. This article gives you an overview of the capabilities and supported use cases for the Azure Monitor Agent.
For a short introduction to the Azure Monitor Agent, including a demo of how to deploy the agent in the Azure portal, see the videoITOps Talk: Azure Monitor Agent.
Note
The Azure Monitor Agent replaces thelegacy Log Analytics agentfor Azure Monitor. The Log Analytics agent isdeprecatedand isn't supported as ofAugust 31, 2024. If you use the Log Analytics agent to ingest data to Azure Monitor,migrate now to the Azure Monitor Agent.
Installation
The Azure Monitor Agent is one method ofdata collection for Azure Monitor. It's installed on VMs running in Azure, in other clouds, or on-premises, where it has access to local logs and performance data. Without the agent, you can collect data only from the host machine because you would have no access to the client operating system and to running processes.
The agent can be installed by using different methods, as described inInstall and manage the Azure Monitor Agent. You can install the agent on a single machine or at scale by using Azure Policy or other tools. In some cases, the agent is automatically installed when you enable a feature that requires it, such as Microsoft Sentinel. The automatic installation only occurs when the feature is first enabled. For continued automated installation for new VM deployments a policy should be created and enabled following the instructions here:Using a Policy to Install AMA.
Data collection
The Azure Monitor Agent collects all data by using adata collection rule (DCR). In a DCR, you define the following information:
The data type that's collected
How to transform the data, including filtering, aggregating, and shaping
The destination for collected data
A single DCR can contain multiple data sources of different types. Depending on your requirements, you can choose whether to include several data sources in a few DCRs or create separate DCRs for each data source. If you create separate DCRs for each data source, you can centrally define the logic for different data collection scenarios and apply them to different sets of machines. For recommendations on how to organize your DCRs, seeBest practices for DCR creation and management in Azure Monitor.
A DCR is applied to a particular agent by creating adata collection rule association (DCRA)between the DCR and the agent. One DCR can be associated with multiple agents, and each agent can be associated with multiple DCRs. When an agent is installed, it connects to Azure Monitor to retrieve any DCRs that are associated with it. The agent periodically checks back with Azure Monitor to determine if there are any changes to existing DCRs or associations with new ones.

Cost
There's no cost to use the Azure Monitor Agent, but you might incur charges for the data that's ingested and stored. For information on Log Analytics data collection and retention and for customer metrics, seeAzure Monitor logs cost calculations and optionsandAnalyze usage in a Log Analytics workspace.
Supported regions
The Azure Monitor Agent is available for general availability features in all global Azure regions, Azure Government, and Azure operated by 21Vianet. It's not yet supported in air-gapped clouds. For more information, seeProduct availability by region.
Supported services and features
The following tables identify the different environments and features that are currently supported by the Azure Monitor Agent and those that are supported by the legacy agent. This information can help you determine whether the Azure Monitor Agent supports your current requirements. For guidance about migrating specific features, seeMigrate to the Azure Monitor Agent from the Log Analytics agent.
Windows agents
Linux agents
Supported data sources
For a list of data sources the Azure Monitor Agent can collect and to learn how to configure them, seeCollect data with the Azure Monitor Agent.
Related content
Install the Azure Monitor Agenton Windows and Linux virtual machines.
Create a data collection ruleto collect data from the agent and send it to Azure Monitor.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources