Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Direct management API retirement (March 2025)
Article
2025-03-12
2 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: Developer | Basic | Standard | Premium
The direct management API in Azure API Management is deprecated and will be retired effective 15 March 2025. You should discontinue use of the direct management API to configure and manage your API Management instance programmatically, and migrate to the standard Azure Resource Manager-based API instead.
Is my service affected by this?
A built-indirect management APIto programmatically manage your API Management instance is disabled by default but can be enabled in the Premium, Standard, Basic, and Developer tiers of API Management. This API is deprecated. While your API Management instance isn't affected by this change, any tool, script, or program that uses the direct management API to interact with the API Management service is affected by this change. You'll be unable to run those tools successfully after the retirement date unless you update the tools to use the standardAzure Resource Manager-based REST APIfor API Management.
What is the deadline for the change?
The direct management API is deprecated. Support for the direct management API will no longer be available starting 15 March 2025.
What do I need to do?
You should no longer use the direct management API and, if it's enabled in your API Management instance, you should disable it. To detect API Management instances that have the direct management API enabled, you can use thisopen-source tool.
Before the retirement date, update your tools, scripts, and programs that call the direct management API endpoint (https://<service-name>.management.azure-api.net) to use equivalent operations in the Azure Resource Manager-based REST API instead.
https://<service-name>.management.azure-api.net
Help and support
If you have questions, get answers from community experts inMicrosoft Q&A. If you have a support plan and you need technical help, create asupport request.
UnderIssue type, selectTechnical.
UnderSubscription, select your subscription.
UnderService, selectMy services, then selectAPI Management Service.
UnderResource, select the Azure resource that you’re creating a support request for.
ForSummary, type a description of your issue, for example, "Direct management API".
Related content
See allupcoming breaking changes and feature retirements.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources