Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure security baseline for Virtual Machines - Linux Virtual Machines
Article
2025-02-25
2 contributors
In this article
This security baseline applies guidance from theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark version 1.0to Virtual Machines - Linux Virtual Machines. The Microsoft cloud security benchmark provides recommendations on how you can secure your cloud solutions on Azure. The content is grouped by the security controls defined by the Microsoft cloud security benchmark and the related guidance applicable to Virtual Machines - Linux Virtual Machines.
You can monitor this security baseline and its recommendations using Microsoft Defender for Cloud. Azure Policy definitions will be listed in the Regulatory Compliance section of the Microsoft Defender for Cloud portal page.
When a feature has relevant Azure Policy Definitions, they are listed in this baseline to help you measure compliance with the Microsoft cloud security benchmark controls and recommendations. Some recommendations may require a paid Microsoft Defender plan to enable certain security scenarios.
Note
Featuresnot applicable to Virtual Machines - Linux Virtual Machines have been excluded. To see how Virtual Machines - Linux Virtual Machines completely maps to the Microsoft cloud security benchmark, see thefull Virtual Machines - Linux Virtual Machines security baseline mapping file.
Security profile
The security profile summarizes high-impact behaviors of Virtual Machines - Linux Virtual Machines, which may result in increased security considerations.
Network security
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Network security.
NS-1: Establish network segmentation boundaries
Description: Service supports deployment into customer's private Virtual Network (VNet).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure
Description: Service network traffic respects Network Security Groups rule assignment on its subnets.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use network security groups (NSG) to restrict or monitor traffic by port, protocol, source IP address, or destination IP address. Create NSG rules to restrict your service's open ports (such as preventing management ports from being accessed from untrusted networks). Be aware that by default, NSGs deny all inbound traffic but allow traffic from virtual network and Azure Load Balancers.
When you create an Azure virtual machine (VM), you must create a virtual network or use an existing virtual network and configure the VM with a subnet. Ensure that all deployed subnets have a Network Security Group applied with network access controls specific to your applications trusted ports and sources.
Reference:Network security groups
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
NS-2: Secure cloud services with network controls
Description: Service supports disabling public network access either through using service-level IP ACL filtering rule (not NSG or Azure Firewall) or using a 'Disable Public Network Access' toggle switch.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Services such as iptables or firewalld may be installed in the Linux OS and provide network filtering to disable public access.
Identity management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Identity management.
IM-1: Use centralized identity and authentication system
Description: Service supports using Azure AD authentication for data plane access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) as the default authentication method to control your data plane access.
Reference:Log in to a Linux virtual machine in Azure by using Azure AD and OpenSSH
Description: Local authentications methods supported for data plane access, such as a local username and password.Learn more.
Feature notes: A local administrator account is created by default during the initial deployment of the virtual machine. Avoid the usage of local authentication methods or accounts, these should be disabled wherever possible. Instead use Azure AD to authenticate where possible.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
IM-3: Manage application identities securely and automatically
Description: Data plane actions support authentication using managed identities.Learn more.
Feature notes: Managed identity is traditionally leveraged by Linux VM to authenticate to other services. If the Linux VM supports Azure AD authentication then managed identity may be supported.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure managed identities instead of service principals when possible, which can authenticate to Azure services and resources that support Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) authentication. Managed identity credentials are fully managed, rotated, and protected by the platform, avoiding hard-coded credentials in source code or configuration files.
Description: Data plane supports authentication using service principals.Learn more.
Feature notes: Service principals may be used by applications running in the Linux VM.
Configuration Guidance: There is no current Microsoft guidance for this feature configuration. Please review and determine if your organization wants to configure this security feature.
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
IM-7: Restrict resource access based on conditions
Description: Data plane access can be controlled using Azure AD Conditional Access Policies.Learn more.
Feature notes: Use Azure AD as a core authentication platform and a certificate authority to SSH into a Linux VM by using Azure AD and OpenSSH certificate-based authentication. This functionality allows organizations to manage access to VMs with Azure role-based access control (RBAC) and Conditional Access policies.
Configuration Guidance: Define the applicable conditions and criteria for Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) conditional access in the workload. Consider common use cases such as blocking or granting access from specific locations, blocking risky sign-in behavior, or requiring organization-managed devices for specific applications.
Reference:Log in to a Linux virtual machine in Azure by using Azure AD and OpenSSH
IM-8: Restrict the exposure of credential and secrets
Description: Data plane supports native use of Azure Key Vault for credential and secrets store.Learn more.
Feature notes: Within the data plane or operating system, services may call Azure Key Vault for credentials or secrets.
Configuration Guidance: Ensure that secrets and credentials are stored in secure locations such as Azure Key Vault, instead of embedding them into code or configuration files.
Privileged access
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Privileged access.
PA-1: Separate and limit highly privileged/administrative users
Description: Service has the concept of a local administrative account.Learn more.
Feature notes: Avoid the usage of local authentication methods or accounts, these should be disabled wherever possible. Instead use Azure AD to authenticate where possible.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Quickstart: Create a Linux virtual machine in the Azure portal
PA-7: Follow just enough administration (least privilege) principle
Description: Azure Role-Based Access Control (Azure RBAC) can be used to managed access to service's data plane actions.Learn more.
Feature notes: Use Azure AD as a core authentication platform and a certificate authority to SSH into a Linux VM by using Azure AD and OpenSSH certificate-based authentication. This functionality allows organizations to manage access to VMs with Azure role-based access control (RBAC) and Conditional Access policies.
Configuration Guidance: With RBAC, specify who can log in to a VM as a regular user or with administrator privileges. When users join your team, you can update the Azure RBAC policy for the VM to grant access as appropriate. When employees leave your organization and their user accounts are disabled or removed from Azure AD, they no longer have access to your resources.
Reference:Log in to a Linux virtual machine in Azure by using Azure AD and OpenSSH
PA-8: Determine access process for cloud provider support
Description: Customer Lockbox can be used for Microsoft support access.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: In support scenarios where Microsoft needs to access your data, use Customer Lockbox to review, then approve or reject each of Microsoft's data access requests.
Data protection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Data protection.
DP-1: Discover, classify, and label sensitive data
Description: Tools (such as Azure Purview or Azure Information Protection) can be used for data discovery and classification in the service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
DP-2: Monitor anomalies and threats targeting sensitive data
Description: Service supports DLP solution to monitor sensitive data movement (in customer's content).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
DP-3: Encrypt sensitive data in transit
Description: Service supports data in-transit encryption for data plane.Learn more.
Feature notes: Certain communication protocols such as SSH are encrypted by default. However, other services such as HTTP must be configured to use TLS for encryption.
Configuration Guidance: Enable secure transfer in services where there is a native data in transit encryption feature built in. Enforce HTTPS on any web applications and services and ensure TLS v1.2 or later is used. Legacy versions such as SSL 3.0, TLS v1.0 should be disabled. For remote management of Virtual Machines, use SSH (for Linux) or RDP/TLS (for Windows) instead of an unencrypted protocol.
Reference:In-transit encryption in VMs
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
DP-4: Enable data at rest encryption by default
Description: Data at-rest encryption using platform keys is supported, any customer content at rest is encrypted with these Microsoft managed keys.Learn more.
Feature notes: By default, managed disks use platform-managed encryption keys. All managed disks, snapshots, images, and data written to existing managed disks are automatically encrypted-at-rest with platform-managed keys.
Configuration Guidance: No additional configurations are required as this is enabled on a default deployment.
Reference:Server-side encryption of Azure Disk Storage - Platform-managed keys
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
DP-5: Use customer-managed key option in data at rest encryption when required
Description: Data at-rest encryption using customer-managed keys is supported for customer content stored by the service.Learn more.
Feature notes: You can choose to manage encryption at the level of each managed disk, with your own keys. When you specify a customer-managed key, that key is used to protect and control access to the key that encrypts your data. Customer-managed keys offer greater flexibility to manage access controls.
Configuration Guidance: If required for regulatory compliance, define the use case and service scope where encryption using customer-managed keys are needed. Enable and implement data at rest encryption using customer-managed key for those services.
Virtual disks on Virtual Machines (VM) are encrypted at rest using either Server-side encryption or Azure disk encryption (ADE). Azure Disk Encryption leverages the DM-Crypt feature of Linux to encrypt managed disks with customer-managed keys within the guest VM. Server-side encryption with customer-managed keys improves on ADE by enabling you to use any OS types and images for your VMs by encrypting data in the Storage service.
Reference:Server-side encryption of Azure Disk Storage - Customer-managed keys
DP-6: Use a secure key management process
Description: The service supports Azure Key Vault integration for any customer keys, secrets, or certificates.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Key Vault to create and control the life cycle of your encryption keys, including key generation, distribution, and storage. Rotate and revoke your keys in Azure Key Vault and your service based on a defined schedule or when there is a key retirement or compromise. When there is a need to use customer-managed key (CMK) in the workload, service, or application level, ensure you follow the best practices for key management: Use a key hierarchy to generate a separate data encryption key (DEK) with your key encryption key (KEK) in your key vault. Ensure keys are registered with Azure Key Vault and referenced via key IDs from the service or application. If you need to bring your own key (BYOK) to the service (such as importing HSM-protected keys from your on-premises HSMs into Azure Key Vault), follow recommended guidelines to perform initial key generation and key transfer.
Reference:Creating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption
DP-7: Use a secure certificate management process
Description: The service supports Azure Key Vault integration for any customer certificates.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: This feature is not supported to secure this service.
Asset management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Asset management.
AM-2: Use only approved services
Description: Service configurations can be monitored and enforced via Azure Policy.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Azure Policy can be used to define the desired behavior for your organization's Windows VMs and Linux VMs. By using policies, an organization can enforce various conventions and rules throughout the enterprise and define and implement standard security configurations for Azure Virtual Machines. Enforcement of the desired behavior can help mitigate risk while contributing to the success of the organization.
Reference:Azure Policy built-in definitions for Azure Virtual Machines
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
AM-5: Use only approved applications in virtual machine
Description: Service can limit what customer applications run on the virtual machine using Adaptive Application Controls in Microsoft Defender for Cloud.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Microsoft Defender for Cloud adaptive application controls to discover applications running on virtual machines (VMs) and generate an application allow list to mandate which approved applications can run in the VM environment.
Reference:Use adaptive application controls to reduce your machines' attack surfaces
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
Logging and threat detection
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Logging and threat detection.
LT-1: Enable threat detection capabilities
Description: Service has an offering-specific Microsoft Defender solution to monitor and alert on security issues.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Defender for Servers extends protection to your Windows and Linux machines running in Azure. Defender for Servers integrates with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint to provide endpoint detection and response (EDR), and also provides a host of additional threat protection features, such as security baselines and OS level assessments, vulnerability assessment scanning, adaptive application controls (AAC), file integrity monitoring (FIM), and more.
Reference:Plan your Defender for Servers deployment
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
LT-4: Enable logging for security investigation
Description: Service produces resource logs that can provide enhanced service-specific metrics and logging. The customer can configure these resource logs and send them to their own data sink like a storage account or log analytics workspace.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Azure Monitor starts automatically collecting metric data for your virtual machine host when you create the VM. To collect logs and performance data from the guest operating system of the virtual machine, though, you must install the Azure Monitor agent. You can install the agent and configure collection using eitherVM insightsor bycreating a data collectionrule.
Reference:Log Analytics agent overview
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
Posture and vulnerability management
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Posture and vulnerability management.
PV-3: Define and establish secure configurations for compute resources
Description: Azure Automation State Configuration can be used to maintain the security configuration of the operating system.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Automation State Configuration to maintain the security configuration of the operating system.
Reference:Configure a VM with Desired State Configuration
Description: Azure Policy guest configuration agent can be installed or deployed as an extension to compute resources.Learn more.
Feature notes: Azure Policy Guest Configuration is now called Azure Automanage Machine Configuration.
Configuration Guidance: Use Microsoft Defender for Cloud and Azure Policy guest configuration agent to regularly assess and remediate configuration deviations on your Azure compute resources, including VMs, containers, and others.
Reference:Understand the machine configuration feature of Azure Automanage
Description: Service supports using user-supplied VM images or pre-built images from the marketplace with certain baseline configurations pre-applied.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use a pre-configured hardened image from a trusted supplier such as Microsoft or build a desired secure configuration baseline into the VM image template.
Reference:Tutorial: Create a custom image of an Azure VM with the Azure CLI
PV-4: Audit and enforce secure configurations for compute resources
Description: Trusted Launch protects against advanced and persistent attack techniques by combining infrastructure technologies like secure boot, vTPM, and integrity monitoring. Each technology provides another layer of defense against sophisticated threats. Trusted launch allows the secure deployment of virtual machines with verified boot loaders, OS kernels, and drivers, and securely protects keys, certificates, and secrets in the virtual machines. Trusted launch also provides insights and confidents of the entire boot chain's integrity and ensures workloads are trusted and verifiable. Trusted launch is integrated with Microsoft Defender for Cloud to ensure VMs are properly configured, by remotely attesting VM is booted in a healthy way.Learn more.
Feature note: Trusted launch is available for generation 2 VMs. Trusted launch requires the creation of new virtual machines. You can't enable trusted launch on existing virtual machines that were initially created without it.
Configuration Guidance: Trusted launch may be enabled during the deployment of the VM. Enable all three - Secure Boot, vTPM, and integrity boot monitoring to ensure the best security posture for the virtual machine. Please note that there are a few prerequisites including onboarding your subscription to Microsoft Defender for Cloud, assigning certain Azure Policy initiatives, and configuring firewall policies.
Reference:Deploy a VM with trusted launch enabled
PV-5: Perform vulnerability assessments
Description: Service can be scanned for vulnerability scan using Microsoft Defender for Cloud or other Microsoft Defender services embedded vulnerability assessment capability (including Microsoft Defender for server, container registry, App Service, SQL, and DNS).Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Follow recommendations from Microsoft Defender for Cloud for performing vulnerability assessments on your Azure virtual machines.
Reference:Plan your Defender for Servers deployment
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
PV-6: Rapidly and automatically remediate vulnerabilities
Description: Service can use Azure Update Manager to deploy patches and updates automatically.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Use Azure Update Manager to ensure that the most recent security updates are installed on your Linux VMs.
Reference:Manage updates and patches for your VMs
Description: Service can use Azure Guest Patching to deploy patches and updates automatically.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Services can leverage the different update mechanisms such asAuto OS Image UpgradesandAuto Guest Patching. The capabilities are recommended to apply the latest security and critical updates to your Virtual Machine's Guest OS by following the Safe Deployment Principles.
Auto Guest Patching allows you to automatically assess and update your Azure virtual machines to maintain security compliance with Critical and Security updates released each month. Updates are applied during off-peak hours, including VMs within an availability set. This capability is available for VMSS Flexible Orchestration, with future support on the roadmap for Uniform Orchestration.
If you run a stateless workload, Auto OS Image Upgrades are ideal to apply the latest update for your VMSS Uniform. With rollback capability, these updates are compatible with Marketplace or Custom images. Future rolling upgrade support on the roadmap for Flexible Orchestration.
Reference:Automatic VM Guest Patching for Azure VMs
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
Endpoint security
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Endpoint security.
ES-1: Use Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)
Description: Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) feature such as Azure Defender for servers can be deployed into the endpoint.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Azure Defender for servers (with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integrated) provides EDR capability to prevent, detect, investigate, and respond to advanced threats. Use Microsoft Defender for Cloud to deploy Azure Defender for servers for your endpoint and integrate the alerts to your SIEM solution such as Azure Sentinel.
Reference:Plan your Defender for Servers deployment
ES-2: Use modern anti-malware software
Description: Anti-malware feature such as Microsoft Defender Antivirus, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint can be deployed on the endpoint.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: For Linux, customers can have the choice of installing Microsoft Defender for Endpoint for Linux. Alternatively, customers also have the choice of installing third-party anti-malware products.
Reference:Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on Linux
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
ES-3: Ensure anti-malware software and signatures are updated
Description: Anti-malware solution provides health status monitoring for platform, engine, and automatic signature updates.Learn more.
Feature notes: Security intelligence and product updates apply to Defender for Endpoint which can be installed on the Linux VMs.
Configuration Guidance: Configure your anti-malware solution to ensure the platform, engine and signatures are updated rapidly and consistently and their status can be monitored.
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.ClassicCompute:
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
Backup and recovery
For more information, see theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark: Backup and recovery.
BR-1: Ensure regular automated backups
Description: The service can be backed up by the Azure Backup service.Learn more.
Configuration Guidance: Enable Azure Backup and target Azure Virtual Machines (VM), as well as the desired frequency and retention periods. This includes complete system state backup. If you are using Azure disk encryption, Azure VM backup automatically handles the backup of customer-managed keys. For Azure Virtual Machines, you can use Azure Policy to enable automatic backups.
Reference:Backup and restore options for virtual machines in Azure
Azure Policy built-in definitions - Microsoft.Compute:
Next steps
See theMicrosoft cloud security benchmark overview
Learn more aboutAzure security baselines
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources