Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure API Center?
Article
2025-03-11
3 contributors
In this article
Azure API Center enables tracking all of your APIs in a centralized location for discovery, reuse, and governance. Use an API center to develop and maintain a structured and organized inventory of your organization's APIs - regardless of their type, lifecycle stage, or deployment location - along with related information such as version details, API definition files, and common metadata.
With an API center, stakeholders throughout your organization - including API program managers, IT administrators, application developers, and API developers - can design, discover, reuse, and govern APIs.
Note
Azure API Center is a solution for design-time API governance and centralized API discovery. Azure also offers complementary services such as Azure API Management, a solution for runtime API governance and observability using an API gateway.Learn moreabout the differences and how Azure API Center and API Management can work together.
Benefits
Create and maintain an organizational inventory​- Organizations can build acomplete inventory of APIsavailable in their organization. Register APIs managed in all of your API management solutions, including Azure API Management and platforms from other providers. Also include your unmanaged APIs and APIs under development. Foster communication and let API program managers and developers collaborate for increased API reuse, quality, security, compliance, and developer productivity.​
Create and maintain an organizational inventory​- Organizations can build acomplete inventory of APIsavailable in their organization. Register APIs managed in all of your API management solutions, including Azure API Management and platforms from other providers. Also include your unmanaged APIs and APIs under development. Foster communication and let API program managers and developers collaborate for increased API reuse, quality, security, compliance, and developer productivity.​
Govern your organization's APIs- With more complete visibility into the APIs being developed and used within an organization, API program managers and IT administrators can govern this inventory to ensure it meets organizational standards bydefining custom metadataandanalyzing API definitionsto enforce conformance to API style guidelines.​
Govern your organization's APIs- With more complete visibility into the APIs being developed and used within an organization, API program managers and IT administrators can govern this inventory to ensure it meets organizational standards bydefining custom metadataandanalyzing API definitionsto enforce conformance to API style guidelines.​
Easy API discovery- Organizations want to promote API reuse to maximize developer productivity and ensure developers are using the right APIs. Azure API Center helps program managers and developers discover the API inventory and filter using built-in and custom metadata. ​
Easy API discovery- Organizations want to promote API reuse to maximize developer productivity and ensure developers are using the right APIs. Azure API Center helps program managers and developers discover the API inventory and filter using built-in and custom metadata. ​
Accelerate API consumption- Maximize developer productivity when consuming APIs and ensure they are consumed in a secure manner consistent with organizational standards.
Accelerate API consumption- Maximize developer productivity when consuming APIs and ensure they are consumed in a secure manner consistent with organizational standards.
Key capabilities
Create and use an API center for the following:
API inventory management- API developers and API program managers can register all of your organization's APIs for inclusion in a centralized inventory using the Azure portal, the Azure CLI, developer tooling such as CI/CD pipelines, and links to API sources such as Azure API Management services.
API inventory management- API developers and API program managers can register all of your organization's APIs for inclusion in a centralized inventory using the Azure portal, the Azure CLI, developer tooling such as CI/CD pipelines, and links to API sources such as Azure API Management services.
API design and development- With theAzure API Center extension for Visual Studio Code, developers can register APIs directly from the same development environment where they create their APIs and apps.Developers can take advantage of the extension's integration with GitHub Copilot tocreate API definitions from codeand with GitHub Copilot for Azure todesign APIs with AI assistance.
API design and development- With theAzure API Center extension for Visual Studio Code, developers can register APIs directly from the same development environment where they create their APIs and apps.
Developers can take advantage of the extension's integration with GitHub Copilot tocreate API definitions from codeand with GitHub Copilot for Azure todesign APIs with AI assistance.
Real-world API representation- Add real-world information about each API including versions and definitions such as OpenAPI definitions. List API deployments and associate them with runtime environments, for example, representing Azure API Management or other API management solutions.
Real-world API representation- Add real-world information about each API including versions and definitions such as OpenAPI definitions. List API deployments and associate them with runtime environments, for example, representing Azure API Management or other API management solutions.
API governance- Organize and filter APIs and related resources using built-in and custom metadata, to help with API governance and discovery by API consumers. Set uplinting and analysisto enforce API definition quality.API developers can shift-left API design conformance checks into Visual Studio Code with integrated linting support and breaking change detection. Integrate with tools such as Dev Proxy to ensure that apps don't use unregisteredshadow APIsor APIs that don't meet organizational standards.
API governance- Organize and filter APIs and related resources using built-in and custom metadata, to help with API governance and discovery by API consumers. Set uplinting and analysisto enforce API definition quality.
API developers can shift-left API design conformance checks into Visual Studio Code with integrated linting support and breaking change detection. Integrate with tools such as Dev Proxy to ensure that apps don't use unregisteredshadow APIsor APIs that don't meet organizational standards.
API discovery and reuse- Enable enterprise developers and API program managers to discover APIs via anAPI Center portal. You can also enable the portal using theAzure API Center Visual Studio Code extension.
API discovery and reuse- Enable enterprise developers and API program managers to discover APIs via anAPI Center portal. You can also enable the portal using theAzure API Center Visual Studio Code extension.
For more about the entities you can manage and the capabilities in Azure API Center, seeKey concepts.
Available regions
Azure API Center is currently available in the following Azure regions:
Australia East
Canada Central
Central India
East US
France Central
Sweden Central
UK South
West Europe
API Center is offered in a Free plan and a Standard plan.Learn more.
Azure API Center and the API ecosystem
Azure API Center can serve a key role in an organization's API ecosystem. Consider the hypothetical Contoso organization, which has adopted an API-first strategy, emphasizing the importance of APIs in their software development and integration.
Contoso's API developers, app developers, API program managers, and API managers collaborate through Azure API Center to develop and use the organization's API inventory. See the following diagram and explanation.

Contoso's API ecosystem includes the following:
API development- Contoso's developers regularly build ASP.NET web APIs. They also create Azure Functions with HTTP triggers.
API development- Contoso's developers regularly build ASP.NET web APIs. They also create Azure Functions with HTTP triggers.
API deployment environments- Contoso deploys a portion of their APIs to Azure App Service. Another subset of their APIs is deployed to an Azure Function app.
API deployment environments- Contoso deploys a portion of their APIs to Azure App Service. Another subset of their APIs is deployed to an Azure Function app.
Azure API Management- Contoso uses the AzureAPI Managementservice to manage, publish, and secure their APIs. They use separate instances for Development, Test, and Production, each with a distinct name.
Azure API Management- Contoso uses the AzureAPI Managementservice to manage, publish, and secure their APIs. They use separate instances for Development, Test, and Production, each with a distinct name.
Azure API Center- Contoso has adopted Azure API Center as their centralized hub for API discovery, governance, and consumption. API Center serves as a structured and organized API hub that provides comprehensive information about all organizational APIs, maintaining related information including versions and associated deployments.
Azure API Center- Contoso has adopted Azure API Center as their centralized hub for API discovery, governance, and consumption. API Center serves as a structured and organized API hub that provides comprehensive information about all organizational APIs, maintaining related information including versions and associated deployments.
Next steps
Set up your API center - portal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources