Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
End-to-end security in Azure
Article
2025-04-23
9 contributors
In this article
One of the best reasons to use Azure for your applications and services is to take advantage of its wide array of security tools and capabilities. These tools and capabilities help make it possible to create secure solutions on the secure Azure platform. Microsoft Azure provides confidentiality, integrity, and availability of customer data, while also enabling transparent accountability.
The following diagram and documentation introduces you to the security services in Azure. These security services help you meet the security needs of your business and protect your users, devices, resources, data, and applications in the cloud.
Microsoft security services map
The security services map organizes services by the resources they protect (column). The diagram also groups services into the following categories (row):
Secure and protect - Services that let you implement a layered, defense in-depth strategy across identity, hosts, networks, and data. This collection of security services and capabilities provides a way to understand and improve your security posture across your Azure environment.
Detect threats – Services that identify suspicious activities and facilitate mitigating the threat.
Investigate and respond – Services that pull logging data so you can assess a suspicious activity and respond.

Security controls and baselines
TheMicrosoft cloud security benchmarkincludes a collection of high-impact security recommendations you can use to help secure the services you use in Azure:
Security controls - These recommendations are generally applicable across your Azure tenant and Azure services. Each recommendation identifies a list of stakeholders that are typically involved in planning, approval, or implementation of the benchmark.
Service baselines - These apply the controls to individual Azure services to provide recommendations on that service’s security configuration.
Secure and protect
Detect threats
Investigate and respond
Next steps
Understand yourshared responsibility in the cloud.
Understand yourshared responsibility in the cloud.
Understand theisolation choices in the Azure cloudagainst both malicious and non-malicious users.
Understand theisolation choices in the Azure cloudagainst both malicious and non-malicious users.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources