Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager?
Article
2025-04-01
6 contributors
In this article
Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager enables at-scale management of multiple Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) clusters. Fleet Manager supports the following scenarios:
Create a Fleet Manager resource and join AKS clusters across regions and subscriptions as member clusters.
Create a Fleet Manager resource and join AKS clusters across regions and subscriptions as member clusters.
Orchestrate Kubernetes version upgrades and node image upgrades across multiple clusters by using update runs, stages, and groups.
Orchestrate Kubernetes version upgrades and node image upgrades across multiple clusters by using update runs, stages, and groups.
Automatically trigger version upgrades when new Kubernetes or node image versions are published.
Automatically trigger version upgrades when new Kubernetes or node image versions are published.
Create Kubernetes resource objects on the Fleet Manager hub cluster and control object placement on to member clusters.
Create Kubernetes resource objects on the Fleet Manager hub cluster and control object placement on to member clusters.
Export and import services between member clusters, and load balance incoming layer-4 traffic across service endpoints on multiple clusters (preview).
Export and import services between member clusters, and load balance incoming layer-4 traffic across service endpoints on multiple clusters (preview).
Next steps
Conceptual overview of Fleets and member clusters.
Conceptual overview of Update orchestration across multiple member clusters.
Conceptual overview of Kubernetes resource placement from hub cluster to member clusters.
Conceptual overview of Multi-cluster layer-4 load balancing.
Create a fleet and join member clusters.
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources