Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Connectivity modes and requirements
Article
2024-09-19
10 contributors
In this article
This article describes the connectivity modes available for Azure Arc-enabled data services, and their respective requirements.
Connectivity modes
There are multiple options for the degree of connectivity from your Azure Arc-enabled data services environment to Azure. As your requirements vary based on business policy, government regulation, or the availability of network connectivity to Azure, you can choose from the following connectivity modes.
Azure Arc-enabled data services provide you the option to connect to Azure in two differentconnectivity modes:
Directly connected
Indirectly connected
The connectivity mode provides you the flexibility to choose how much data is sent to Azure and how users interact with the Arc Data Controller. Depending on the connectivity mode that is chosen, some functionality of Azure Arc-enabled data services might or might not be available.
Importantly, if the Azure Arc-enabled data services are directly connected to Azure, then users can useAzure Resource Manager APIs, the Azure CLI, and the Azure portal to operate the Azure Arc data services. The experience in directly connected mode is much like how you would use any other Azure service with provisioning/de-provisioning, scaling, configuring, and so on, all in the Azure portal.  If the Azure Arc-enabled data services are indirectly connected to Azure, then the Azure portal is a read-only view. You can see the inventory of SQL managed instances and PostgreSQL servers that you have deployed and the details about them, but you can't take action on them in the Azure portal.  In the indirectly connected mode, all actions must be taken locally using Azure Data Studio, the appropriate CLI, or Kubernetes native tools like kubectl.
Additionally, Microsoft Entra ID and Azure Role-Based Access Control can be used in the directly connected mode only because there's a dependency on a continuous and direct connection to Azure to provide this functionality.
Some Azure-attached services are only available when they can be directly reached such as Container Insights, and backup to blob storage.
Feature availability by connectivity mode
kubectl
oc
kubectl
Connectivity requirements
Some functionality requires a connection to Azure.
All communication with Azure is always initiated from your environment.This is true even for operations that are initiated by a user in the Azure portal.  In that case, there is effectively a task, which is queued up in Azure.  An agent in your environment initiates the communication with Azure to see what tasks are in the queue, runs the tasks, and reports back the status/completion/fail to Azure.
Details on internet addresses, ports, encryption, and proxy server support
arcdataservicesrow1.azurecr.io
*.ods.opinsights.azure.com
*.oms.opinsights.azure.com
*.monitoring.azure.com
*.<region>.arcdataservices.com
1Requirement depends on deployment mode:
For direct mode, the controller pod on the Kubernetes cluster needs to have outbound connectivity to the endpoints to send the logs, metrics, inventory, and billing information to Azure Monitor/Data Processing Service.
For indirect mode, the machine that runsaz arcdata dc uploadneeds to have the outbound connectivity to Azure Monitor and Data Processing Service.
az arcdata dc upload
2For extension versions up to and including February 13, 2024, usesan-af-<region>-prod.azurewebsites.net.
san-af-<region>-prod.azurewebsites.net
Azure Monitor APIs
Connectivity from Azure Data Studio to the Kubernetes API server uses the Kubernetes authentication and encryption that you have established.  Each user that is using Azure Data Studio or CLI must have an authenticated connection to the Kubernetes API to perform many of the actions related to Azure Arc-enabled data services.
Additional network requirements
In addition, resource bridge requiresArc-enabled Kubernetes endpoints.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources