Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Support matrix for backup of SAP HANA databases on Azure VMs
Article
2025-04-09
8 contributors
In this article
Azure Backup supports the backup of SAP HANA databases to Azure. This article summarizes the scenarios supported and limitations present when you use Azure Backup to back up SAP HANA databases on Azure VMs.
Note
The frequency of log backup can now be set to a minimum of 15 minutes. Log backups only begin to flow after a successful full backup for the database has completed.
Scenario support
ext3
xfs
Note
Azure Backup doesn’t automatically adjust for daylight saving time changes when backing up an SAP HANA database running in an Azure VM. We recommend you to modify the policy manually as needed.
You can nowmonitor the backup and restorejobs (to the same machine) triggered from HANA native clients (SAP HANA Studio/ Cockpit/ DBA Cockpit) in the Azure portal.
Support for multistreaming data backups
Parameters to enable SAP HANA settings for multistreaming:parallel_data_backup_backint_channelsdata_backup_buffer_size (optional)NoteBy setting the above HANA parameters will lead to increased memory and CPU utilization. We recommend that you monitor the memory consumption and CPU utilization as overutilization might negatively impact the backup and other HANA operations.
Parameters to enable SAP HANA settings for multistreaming:
parallel_data_backup_backint_channels
data_backup_buffer_size (optional)
Note
By setting the above HANA parameters will lead to increased memory and CPU utilization. We recommend that you monitor the memory consumption and CPU utilization as overutilization might negatively impact the backup and other HANA operations.
Backup performance for databases: The performance gain will be more prominent for larger databases.
Backup performance for databases: The performance gain will be more prominent for larger databases.
Database size applicable for multistreaming: The number of multistreaming channels applies to all data backupslarger than 128 GB. Data backups smaller than 128 GB always use only one channel.
Database size applicable for multistreaming: The number of multistreaming channels applies to all data backupslarger than 128 GB. Data backups smaller than 128 GB always use only one channel.
Supported backup throughput: Multistreaming currently supports the data backup throughput of up to1.5 GBps. Recovery throughput is slower than the backup throughput.
Supported backup throughput: Multistreaming currently supports the data backup throughput of up to1.5 GBps. Recovery throughput is slower than the backup throughput.
VM configuration applicable for multistreaming: To utilize the benefits of multistreaming, the VM needs to have a minimum configuration of16 vCPUsand128 GBof RAM.
VM configuration applicable for multistreaming: To utilize the benefits of multistreaming, the VM needs to have a minimum configuration of16 vCPUsand128 GBof RAM.
Limiting factors: Throughput oftotal disk LVM stripingandVM network, whichever hits first.
Limiting factors: Throughput oftotal disk LVM stripingandVM network, whichever hits first.
Learn more aboutSAP HANA Azure Virtual Machine storageandSAP HANA Azure virtual machine Premium SSD storage configurationsconfigurations. To configure multistreaming data backups, see theSAP documentation.
Support for Azure Backup Multiple Components on One System (MCOS)
Azure Backup for SAP HANA supports backing up multiple SAP HANA systems (SIDs) on a single host. SAP HANA MCOS support includes the following configurations.
*HXEandHYErepresent two HANA instances running on the same host.
HXE
HYE
The following table lists the required parameters for adding/removing SAP HANA instances:
--sid
./msawb-plugin-config-com-sap-hana.sh --add --sid HXE
./msawb-plugin-config-com-sap-hana.sh  --sid HXE
add
--sid
./msawb-plugin-config-com-sap-hana.sh --remove --sid HXE
Next steps
Learn how tobackup SAP HANA databases running on Azure VMs
Learn how torestore SAP HANA databases running on Azure VMs
Learn how tomanage SAP HANA databases that are backed up using Azure Backup
Learn how totroubleshoot common issues when backing up SAP HANA databases
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources