Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
What is Azure AI Health Insights?
Article
2024-09-30
4 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Health Insights is an Azure AI service providing an API that serves insight models, which perform analysis to support a human decision. The AI models receive patient data input in different modalities, and return insight inferences including evidence as a result, for key high value scenarios in the health domain.
Important
Azure AI Health Insights is a capability provided “AS IS” and “WITH ALL FAULTS.” Azure AI Health Insights isn't intended or made available for use as a medical device, clinical support, diagnostic tool, or other technology intended to be used in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease or other conditions, and no license or right is granted by Microsoft to use this capability for such purposes. This capability isn't designed or intended to be implemented or deployed as a substitute for professional medical advice or healthcare opinion, diagnosis, treatment, or the clinical judgment of a healthcare professional, and should not be used as such. The customer is solely responsible for any use of Azure AI Health Insights.
Why use Azure AI Health Insights?
Health and Life Sciences organizations have multiple high-value business problems that require clinical insights inferences that are based on clinical data.
Azure AI Health Insights is a Cognitive Service that provides prebuilt models that assist with solving those business problems.
Available models
There are currently two models available in Azure AI Health Insights:
TheTrial Matchermodel receives patients' data and clinical trials protocols, and provides relevant clinical trials based on eligibility criteria.
TheRadiology Insightsmodel receives patients' radiology report and provides quality checks with feedback on errors and mismatches. The Radiology Insights model ensures critical findings are surfaced and presented using the full context of a radiology report. In addition, the model is highlighting follow-up recommendations and clinical findings with measurements documented by the radiologist.
Architecture

Azure AI Health Insights service receives patient data in different modalities, such as unstructured healthcare data, FHIR resources or specific JSON format data. In addition, the service receives a model configuration, such asincludeEvidenceparameter.
With these input patient data and configuration, the service can run the data through the selected health insights AI model, such as Trial Matcher or Radiology Insights.
includeEvidence
Next steps
Review the following information to learn how to deploy Azure AI Health Insights and to learn additional information about each of the models:
Deploy Azure AI Health Insights using Azure portal
Trial Matcher
Radiology Insights
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources