Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Customer-managed keys for encryption
Article
2025-02-03
7 contributors
In this article
This article provides an overview of customer-managed keys for encryption.
Note
This feature requires thePremium plan.
Customer-managed keys for encryption overview
Some services and data support adding a customer-managed key to help protect and control access to encrypted data. You can use the key management service in your cloud to maintain a customer-managed encryption key.
Azure Databricks supports customer-managed keys from Azure Key Vault vaults and Azure Key Vault Managed HSM (Hardware Security Modules).
Azure Databricks has three customer-managed key features for different types of data:
Customer-managed keys for Azure managed disks
Customer-managed keys for managed services
Customer-managed keys for DBFS root
The following table lists which customer-managed key features are used for which types of data.
For additional security for your workspace storage account instance in your Azure subscription, you can enable double encryption and firewall support. SeeConfigure double encryption for DBFS rootandEnable firewall support for your workspace storage account.
Important
Only AI/BI dashboards created after November 1, 2024 are encrypted and compatible with customer-managed keys.
Only AI/BI Genie spaces created after April 10, 2025, are encrypted and compatible with customer-managed keys.
Serverless compute and customer-managed keys
Databricks SQL Serverlesssupports:
Customer-managed keys for managed servicesfor Databricks SQL queries and query history.
Customer-managed keys for managed servicesfor Databricks SQL queries and query history.
Customer-managed keys for DBFS root storagefor Databricks SQL results.Customer-managed keys for managed disk storagedo not apply to serverless compute resources. Disks for serverless compute resources are short-lived and tied to the lifecycle of the serverless workload. When compute resources are stopped or scaled down, the VMs and their storage are destroyed.
Customer-managed keys for DBFS root storagefor Databricks SQL results.
Customer-managed keys for managed disk storagedo not apply to serverless compute resources. Disks for serverless compute resources are short-lived and tied to the lifecycle of the serverless workload. When compute resources are stopped or scaled down, the VMs and their storage are destroyed.
Model Serving
Resources forModel Serving, a serverless compute feature, are generally in two categories:
Resources that you create for the model are stored in your workspace’s DBFS root in your workspace storage in ADLSgen2 (for older workspaces, Blob storage). This includes the model’s artifacts and version metadata. Both the workspace model registry and MLflow use this storage. You can configure this storage to use customer-managed keys.
Resources that Azure Databricks creates directly on your behalf include the model image and ephemeral serverless compute storage. These are encrypted with Databricks-managed keys and do not support customer-managed keys.
Customer-managed keys for managed disk storagedonotapply to serverless compute resources. Disks for serverless compute resources are short-lived and tied to the lifecycle of the serverless workload. When compute resources are stopped or scaled down, the VMs and their storage are destroyed.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources