Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Open Service Mesh (OSM) add-on in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Article
2024-09-25
13 contributors
In this article
Open Service Mesh (OSM)is a lightweight, extensible, cloud native service mesh that allows you to uniformly manage, secure, and get out-of-the-box observability features for highly dynamic microservice environments.
OSM runs an Envoy-based control plane on Kubernetes and can be configured withSMIAPIs. OSM works by injecting an Envoy proxy as a sidecar container with each instance of your application. The Envoy proxy contains and executes rules around access control policies, implements routing configuration, and captures metrics. The control plane continually configures the Envoy proxies to ensure policies and routing rules are up to date and proxies are healthy.
Microsoft started the OSM project, but it's now governed by theCloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF).
Note
With the retirement ofOpen Service Mesh (OSM)by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), we recommend identifying your OSM configurations and migrating them to an equivalent Istio configuration. For information about migrating from OSM to Istio, seeMigration guidance for Open Service Mesh (OSM) configurations to Istio.
Enable the OSM add-on
OSM can be added to your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster by enabling the OSM add-on using theAzure CLIor aBicep template. The OSM add-on provides a fully supported installation of OSM that's integrated with AKS.
Important
Based on the version of Kubernetes your cluster is running, the OSM add-on installs a different version of OSM.
Older versions of OSM may not be available for install or be actively supported if the corresponding AKS version has reached end of life. You can check theAKS Kubernetes release calendarfor information on AKS version support windows.
Capabilities and features
OSM provides the following capabilities and features:
Secure service-to-service communication by enabling mutual TLS (mTLS).
Onboard applications onto the OSM mesh using automatic sidecar injection of Envoy proxy.
Transparently configure traffic shifting on deployments.
Define and execute fine-grained access control policies for services.
Monitor and debug services using observability and insights into application metrics.
Encrypt communications between service endpoints deployed in the cluster.
Enable traffic authorization of both HTTP/HTTPS and TCP traffic.
Configure weighted traffic controls between two or more services for A/B testing or canary deployments.
Collect and view KPIs from application traffic.
Integrate with external certificate management.
Integrate with existing ingress solutions such asNGINX,Contour, andApplication Routing.
For more information on ingress and OSM, seeUsing ingress to manage external access to services within the clusterandIntegrate OSM with Contour for ingress. For an example of how to integrate OSM with ingress controllers using thenetworking.k8s.io/v1API, seeIngress with Kubernetes Nginx ingress controller. For more information on using Application Routing, which automatically integrates with OSM, seeApplication Routing.
networking.k8s.io/v1
Limitations
The OSM AKS add-on has the following limitations:
After installation, you must enable Iptables redirection for port IP address and port range exclusion usingkubectl patch. For more information, seeiptables redirection.
kubectl patch
Any pods that need access to IMDS, Azure DNS, or the Kubernetes API server must have their IP addresses added to the global list of excluded outbound IP ranges usingGlobal outbound IP range exclusions.
The add-on doesn't work on AKS clusters that are usingIstio based service mesh addon for AKS.
OSM doesn't support Windows Server containers.
Next steps
After enabling the OSM add-on using theAzure CLIor aBicep template, you can:
Deploy a sample application
Onboard an existing application
Azure Kubernetes Service

Additional resources