Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Save costs with Azure Reserved VM Instances
Article
2024-08-22
8 contributors
In this article
Applies to:✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets
When you commit to an Azure reserved VM instance you can save money. The reservation discount is applied automatically to the number of running virtual machines that match the reservation scope and attributes. You don't need to assign a reservation to a virtual machine to get the discounts. A reserved instance purchase covers only the compute part of your VM usage. For Windows VMs, the usage meter is split into two separate meters. There's a compute meter, which is same as the Linux meter, and a Windows server license. The charges that you see when you make the purchase are only for the compute costs. Charges don't include Windows software costs. For more information about software costs, seeSoftware costs not included with Azure Reserved VM Instances.
Determine the right VM size before you buy
Before you buy a reservation, you should determine the size of the VM that you need. The following sections will help you determine the right VM size.
Use reservation recommendations
You can use reservation recommendations to help determine the reservations you should purchase.
Purchase recommendations and recommended quantities are shown when you purchase a VM reserved instance in the Azure portal.
Azure Advisor provides purchase recommendations for individual subscriptions.
You can use the APIs to get purchase recommendations for both shared scope and single subscription scope. For more information, seeReserved instance purchase recommendation APIs for enterprise customers.
For Enterprise Agreement (EA) and Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) customers, purchase recommendations for shared and single subscription scopes are available with theAzure Consumption Insights Power BI content pack.
Services that get VM reservation discounts
Your VM reservations can apply to VM usage emitted from multiple services - not just for your VM deployments. Resources that get reservation discounts change depending on the instance size flexibility setting.
The instance size flexibility setting determines which services get the reserved instance discounts.
Whether the setting is on or off, reservation discounts automatically apply to any matching VM usage when theConsumedServiceisMicrosoft.Compute. So, check your usage data for theConsumedServicevalue. Some examples include:
Microsoft.Compute
Virtual machines
Virtual machine scale sets
Container service
Azure Batch deployments (in user subscriptions mode)
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Service Fabric
When the setting is on, reservation discounts automatically apply to matching VM usage when theConsumedServiceis any of the following items:
Microsoft.Compute
Microsoft.ClassicCompute
Microsoft.Batch
Microsoft.MachineLearningServices
Microsoft.Kusto
Check theConsumedServicevalue in your usage data to determine if the usage is eligible for reservation discounts.
For more information about instance size flexibility, seeVirtual machine size flexibility with Reserved VM Instances.
Analyze your usage information
Analyze your usage information to help determine which reservations you should purchase. Usage data is available in the usage file and APIs. Use them together to determine which reservation to purchase. Check for VM instances that have high usage on daily basis to determine the quantity of reservations to purchase. Avoid theMetersubcategory andProductfields in usage data. They don't distinguish between VM sizes that use premium storage. If you use these fields to determine the VM size for reservation purchase, you may buy the wrong size. Then you won't get the reservation discount you expect. Instead, refer to theAdditionalInfofield in your usage file or usage API to determine the correct VM size.
Meter
Product
AdditionalInfo
Your usage file shows your charges by billing period and daily usage. For information about downloading your usage file, seeView and download your Azure usage and charges. Then, by using the usage file information, you candetermine what reservation to purchase.
Purchase restriction considerations
Reserved VM Instances are available for most VM sizes with some exceptions. Reservation discounts don't apply for the following VMs:
VM series- A-series, or G-series.NoteA-series VMs differ from Av2 series VMs. Av2 series VMs are available for reservation purchase.
VM series- A-series, or G-series.
Note
A-series VMs differ from Av2 series VMs. Av2 series VMs are available for reservation purchase.
Preview or Promo VMs- Any VM-series or size that is in preview or uses promotional meter.
Preview or Promo VMs- Any VM-series or size that is in preview or uses promotional meter.
Insufficient quota- A reservation that is scoped to a single subscription must have vCPU quota available in the subscription for the new RI. For example, if the target subscription has a quota limit of 10 vCPUs for D-Series, then you can't buy a reservation for 11 Standard_D1 instances. The quota check for reservations includes the VMs already deployed in the subscription. For example, if the subscription has a quota of 10 vCPUs for D-Series and has two standard_D1 instances deployed, then you can buy a reservation for 10 standard_D1 instances in this subscription. You cancreate quote increase requestto resolve this issue.
Insufficient quota- A reservation that is scoped to a single subscription must have vCPU quota available in the subscription for the new RI. For example, if the target subscription has a quota limit of 10 vCPUs for D-Series, then you can't buy a reservation for 11 Standard_D1 instances. The quota check for reservations includes the VMs already deployed in the subscription. For example, if the subscription has a quota of 10 vCPUs for D-Series and has two standard_D1 instances deployed, then you can buy a reservation for 10 standard_D1 instances in this subscription. You cancreate quote increase requestto resolve this issue.
Capacity restrictions- In rare circumstances, Azure limits the purchase of new reservations for subset of VM sizes, because of low capacity in a region.
Capacity restrictions- In rare circumstances, Azure limits the purchase of new reservations for subset of VM sizes, because of low capacity in a region.
Buy a Reserved VM Instance
You can buy a reserved VM instance in theAzure portal. Pay for the reservationup front or with monthly payments.
These requirements apply to buying a reserved VM instance:
To buy a reservation, you must have owner role or reservation purchaser role on an Azure subscription.
For EA subscriptions, theAdd Reserved Instancesoption must be enabled in theEA portal. Or, if that setting is disabled, you must be an EA Admin for the subscription.
For the Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program, only the admin agents or sales agents can buy reservations.
To buy an instance:
Sign in to theAzure portal.
SelectAll services>Reservations.
SelectAddto purchase a new reservation and then clickVirtual machine.
Enter required fields. Running VM instances that match the attributes you select qualify to get the reservation discount. The actual number of your VM instances that get the discount depend on the scope and quantity selected.
If you have an EA agreement, you can use theAdd more optionto quickly add additional instances. The option isn't available for other subscription types.
Single resource group scope— Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected resource group only.
Single subscription scope— Applies the reservation discount to the matching resources in the selected subscription.
Shared scope— Applies the reservation discount to matching resources in eligible subscriptions that are in the billing context. For EA customers, the billing context is the enrollment. For individual subscriptions with pay-as-you-go rates, the billing scope is all eligible subscriptions created by the account administrator.
Management group- Applies the reservation discount to the matching resource in the list of subscriptions that are a part of both the management group and billing scope.
Usage data and reservation utilization
Your usage data has an effective price of zero for the usage that gets a reservation discount. You can see which VM instance received the reservation discount for each reservation.
For more information about how reservation discounts appear in usage data, seeUnderstand Azure reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollmentif you are an EA customer. If you have an individual subscription, seeUnderstand Azure reservation usage for your Pay-As-You-Go subscription.
Change a reservation after purchase
You can make the following types of changes to a reservation after purchase:
Update reservation scope
Instance size flexibility (if applicable)
Ownership
You can also split a reservation into smaller chunks and merge already split reservations. None of the changes cause a new commercial transaction or change the end date of the reservation.
You can't make the following types of changes after purchase, directly:
An existing reservation's region
SKU
Quantity
Duration
However, you canexchangea reservation if you want to make changes.
Cancel, exchange, or refund reservations
You can cancel, exchange, or refund reservations with certain limitations. For more information, seeSelf-service exchanges and refunds for Azure Reservations.
Need help? Contact us.
If you have questions or need help,create a support request.
Next steps
To learn how to manage a reservation, seeManage Azure Reservations.
To learn more about Azure Reservations, see the following articles:What are Azure Reservations?Manage Reservations in AzureUnderstand how the reservation discount is appliedUnderstand reservation usage for a subscription with pay-as-you-go ratesUnderstand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollmentWindows software costs not included with reservationsAzure Reservations in Partner Center Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program
What are Azure Reservations?
Manage Reservations in Azure
Understand how the reservation discount is applied
Understand reservation usage for a subscription with pay-as-you-go rates
Understand reservation usage for your Enterprise enrollment
Windows software costs not included with reservations
Azure Reservations in Partner Center Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) program
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources