Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Cloud feature availability for commercial and US Government customers
Article
2025-04-23
41 contributors
In this article
This article describes feature availability in the Microsoft Azure and Azure Government clouds. Features are listed asGA(Generally Available),Public Preview, orNot Availablefor the following security services:
Azure Information Protection
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Defender for IoT
Azure Attestation
Note
Additional security services will be added to this article soon.
Azure Government
Azure Government uses the same underlying technologies as Azure (sometimes referred to as Azure Commercial or Azure Public), which includes the core components of Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). Both Azure and Azure Government have comprehensive security controls in place, and the Microsoft commitment on the safeguarding of customer data.
Azure Government is a physically isolated cloud environment dedicated to US federal, state, local, and tribal governments, and their partners. Whereas both cloud environments are assessed and authorized at the FedRAMP High impact level, Azure Government provides an extra layer of protection to customers through contractual commitments regarding storage of customer data in the United States and limiting potential access to systems processing customer data to screened US persons. These commitments may be of interest to customers using the cloud to store or process data subject to US export control regulations such as the EAR, ITAR, and DoE 10 CFR Part 810.
For more information about Azure Government, seeWhat is Azure Government?
Note
These lists and tables do not include feature or bundle availability in the Azure Government Secret or Azure Government Top Secret clouds.
For more information about specific availability for air-gapped clouds, please contact your account team.
Microsoft 365 integration
Integrations between products rely on interoperability between Azure and Office platforms. Offerings hosted in the Azure environment are accessible from the Microsoft 365 Enterprise and Microsoft 365 Government platforms. Office 365 and Office 365 GCC are paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure. Office 365 GCC High and Office 365 DoD are paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure Government.
The following diagram displays the hierarchy of Microsoft clouds and how they relate to each other.

The Office 365 GCC environment helps customers comply with US government requirements, including FedRAMP High, CJIS, and IRS 1075. The Office 365 GCC High and DoD environments support customers who need compliance with DoD IL4/5, DFARS 7012, NIST 800-171, and ITAR.
For more information about Office 365 US Government environments, see:
Office 365 GCC
Office 365 GCC High and DoD
The following sections identify when a service has an integration with Microsoft 365 and the feature availability for Office 365 GCC, Office 365 High, and Office 365 DoD.
Azure Information Protection
Azure Information Protection (AIP) is a cloud-based solution that enables organizations to discover, classify, and protect documents and emails by applying labels to content.
AIP is part of the Microsoft Purview Information Protection (MIP) solution, and extends thelabelingandclassificationfunctionality provided by Microsoft 365.
For more information, see theAzure Information Protection product documentation.
Office 365 GCC is paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure. Office 365 GCC High and Office 365 DoD are paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure Government. Make sure to pay attention to the Azure environment to understand whereinteroperability is possible. In the following table, interoperability that isnotpossible is marked with a dash (-) to indicate that support is not relevant.
Office 365 GCC is paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure. Office 365 GCC High and Office 365 DoD are paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure Government. Make sure to pay attention to the Azure environment to understand whereinteroperability is possible. In the following table, interoperability that isnotpossible is marked with a dash (-) to indicate that support is not relevant.
Extra configurations are required for GCC-High and DoD customers. For more information, seeAzure Information Protection Premium Government Service Description.
Extra configurations are required for GCC-High and DoD customers. For more information, seeAzure Information Protection Premium Government Service Description.
Note
More details about support for government customers are listed in footnotes below the table.
Extra steps are required for configuring Azure Information Protection for GCC High and DoD customers. For more information, see theAzure Information Protection Premium Government Service Description.
1The scanner can function without Office 365 to scan files only. The scanner cannot apply labels to files without Office 365.
2The classification and labeling add-in is only supported for government customers with Microsoft 365 Apps (version 9126.1001 or higher), including Professional Plus (ProPlus) and Click-to-Run (C2R) versions. Office 2010, Office 2013, and other Office 2016 versions are not supported.
Office 365 features
3The Mobile Device Extension for AD RMS is currently not available for government customers.
4Information Rights Management with SharePoint Online (IRM-protected sites and libraries) is currently not available.
5Information Rights Management (IRM) is supported only for Microsoft 365 Apps (version 9126.1001 or higher), including Professional Plus (ProPlus) and Click-to-Run (C2R) versions. Office 2010, Office 2013, and other Office 2016 versions are not supported.
6Only on-premises Exchange is supported. Outlook Protection Rules are not supported. File Classification Infrastructure is not supported. On-premises SharePoint is not supported.
7Sharing of protected documents and emails from government clouds to users in the commercial cloud is not currently available. Includes Microsoft 365 Apps users in the commercial cloud, non-Microsoft 365 Apps users in the commercial cloud, and users with an RMS for Individuals license.
8The number ofSensitive Information Typesin your Microsoft Purview compliance portal may vary based on region.
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Microsoft Defender for Cloud is a unified infrastructure security management system that strengthens the security posture of your data centers, and provides advanced threat protection across your hybrid workloads in the cloud - whether they're in Azure or not - as well as on premises.
For more information, see theMicrosoft Defender for Cloud product documentation.
The following table displays the current Defender for Cloud feature availability in Azure and Azure Government.
Continuous export
Workflow automation
Recommendation exemption rules
Alert suppression rules
Email notifications for security alerts
Auto provisioning for agents and extensions
Asset inventory
Azure Monitor Workbooks reports in Microsoft Defender for Cloud's workbooks gallery
Microsoft Defender for servers
Microsoft Defender for App Service
Microsoft Defender for DNS
Microsoft Defender for Containers9
Microsoft Defender for container registries1(deprecated)
Microsoft Defender for container registries scanning of images in CI/CD workflows3
Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes4(deprecated)
Defender extension for Arc-enabled Kubernetes, Servers, or Data services5
Microsoft Defender for Azure SQL database servers
Microsoft Defender for SQL servers on machines
Microsoft Defender for open-source relational databases
Microsoft Defender for Key Vault
Microsoft Defender for Resource Manager
Microsoft Defender for Storage6
Microsoft Defender for Azure Cosmos DB
Kubernetes workload protection
Bi-directional alert synchronization with Microsoft Sentinel
Just-in-time VM access
File integrity monitoring
Adaptive application controls
Adaptive network hardening
Docker host hardening
Integrated vulnerability assessment for machines
Regulatory compliance dashboard & reports8
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint deployment and integrated license
Connect AWS account
Connect GCP account
1Partially GA: The ability to disable specific findings from vulnerability scans is in public preview.
2Vulnerability scans of container registries on Azure Gov can only be performed with the scan on push feature.
3Requires Microsoft Defender for container registries.
4Partially GA: Support for Azure Arc-enabled clusters is in public preview and not available on Azure Government.
5Requires Microsoft Defender for Kubernetes.
6Partially GA: Some of the threat protection alerts from Microsoft Defender for Storage are in public preview.
7These features all requireMicrosoft Defender for servers.
8There may be differences in the standards offered per cloud type.
9Partially GA: Support for Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters (and therefore AWS EKS too) is in public preview and not available on Azure Government. Run-time visibility of vulnerabilities in container images is also a preview feature.

Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Sentinel is a scalable, cloud-native, security information event management (SIEM), and security orchestration automated response (SOAR) solution. Microsoft Sentinel delivers intelligent security analytics and threat intelligence across the enterprise, providing a single solution for alert detection, threat visibility, proactive hunting, and threat response.
For more information, see theMicrosoft Sentinel product documentation.
For Microsoft Sentinel feature availability in Azure, Azure Government, and Azure China 21 Vianet, seeMicrosoft Sentinel feature support for Azure clouds.
Microsoft Purview Data Connectors
Office 365 GCC is paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure. Office 365 GCC High and Office 365 DoD are paired with Microsoft Entra ID in Azure Government.
Tip
Make sure to pay attention to the Azure environment to understand whereinteroperability is possible. In the following table, interoperability that isnotpossible is marked with a dash (-) to indicate that support is not relevant.

Microsoft Defender for IoT
Microsoft Defender for IoT lets you accelerate IoT/OT innovation with comprehensive security across all your IoT/OT devices. For end-user organizations, Microsoft Defender for IoT offers agentless, network-layer security that is rapidly deployed, works with diverse industrial equipment, and interoperates with Microsoft Sentinel and other SOC tools. Deploy on-premises or in Azure-connected environments. For IoT device builders, the Microsoft Defender for IoT security agents allow you to build security directly into your new IoT devices and Azure IoT projects. The micro agent has flexible deployment options, including the ability to deploy as a binary package or modify source code. And the micro agent is available for standard IoT operating systems like Linux and Azure RTOS. For more information, see theMicrosoft Defender for IoT product documentation.
The following table displays the current Microsoft Defender for IoT feature availability in Azure, and Azure Government.
For organizations
For device builders
Azure Attestation
Microsoft Azure Attestation is a unified solution for remotely verifying the trustworthiness of a platform and integrity of the binaries running inside it. The service receives evidence from the platform, validates it with security standards, evaluates it against configurable policies, and produces an attestation token for claims-based applications (e.g., relying parties, auditing authorities).
Azure Attestation is currently available in multiple regions across Azure public and Government clouds. In Azure Government, the service is available in preview status across US Gov Virginia and US Gov Arizona.
For more information, see Azure Attestationpublic documentation.
Next steps
Understand theshared responsibilitymodel and which security tasks are handled by the cloud provider and which tasks are handled by you.
Understand theAzure Government Cloudcapabilities and the trustworthy design and security used to support compliance applicable to federal, state, and local government organizations and their partners.
Understand theOffice 365 Government plan.
Understandcompliance in Azurefor legal and regulatory standards.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources