Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Built-in connectors in Azure Logic Apps
Article
2024-12-18
9 contributors
In this article
Built-in connectors provide ways for you to control your workflow's schedule and structure, run your own code, manage or manipulate data, and complete other tasks in your workflows. Different from managed connectors, some built-in connectors aren't tied to a specific service, system, or protocol. For example, you can start almost any workflow on a schedule by using the Recurrence trigger. Or, you can have your workflow wait until called by using the Request trigger. All built-in connectors run natively on the Azure Logic Apps runtime. Some don't require that you create a connection before you use them.
For a smaller number of services, systems, and protocols, Azure Logic Apps provides a built-in version alongside the managed version. The number and range of built-in connectors vary based on whether you create a Consumption logic app workflow that runs in multitenant Azure Logic Apps or a Standard logic app workflow that runs in single-tenant Azure Logic Apps. In most cases, the built-in version provides better performance, capabilities, pricing, and so on. In a few cases, some built-in connectors are available only in one logic app workflow type and not the other.
For example, a Standard workflow can use both managed connectors and built-in connectors for Azure Blob Storage, Azure Cosmos DB, Azure Event Hubs, Azure Service Bus, FTP, IBM DB2, IBM MQ, SFTP, and SQL Server. A Consumption workflow doesn't have the built-in versions. A Consumption workflow can use built-in connectors for Azure API Management, and Azure App Service, while a Standard workflow doesn't have these built-in connectors.
Also, in Standard workflows, somebuilt-in connectors with specific attributes are informally known asservice providers. Some built-in connectors support only a single way to authenticate a connection to the underlying service. Other built-in connectors can offer a choice, such as using a connection string, Microsoft Entra ID, or a managed identity. All built-in connectors run in the same process as the Azure Logic Apps runtime. For more information, reviewSingle-tenant versus multitenant in Azure Logic Apps.
This article provides a general overview about built-in connectors in Consumption workflows versus Standard workflows.

Built-in connectors in Consumption versus Standard
The following table lists the current and expanding galleries of built-in operations collections available for Consumption versus Standard workflows. For Standard workflows, an asterisk (*) marksbuilt-in connectors based on theservice providermodel, which is described in more detail later.

Service provider-based built-in connectors
In Standard workflows, a built-in connector that has the following attributes is informally known as aservice provider:
Is based on theAzure Functions extensibility model.
Is based on theAzure Functions extensibility model.
Provides access from a Standard workflow to a service, such as Azure Blob Storage, Azure Service Bus, Azure Event Hubs, SFTP, and SQL Server.Some built-in connectors support only a single way to authenticate a connection to the underlying service. Other built-in connectors can offer a choice, such as using a connection string, Microsoft Entra ID, or a managed identity.
Provides access from a Standard workflow to a service, such as Azure Blob Storage, Azure Service Bus, Azure Event Hubs, SFTP, and SQL Server.
Some built-in connectors support only a single way to authenticate a connection to the underlying service. Other built-in connectors can offer a choice, such as using a connection string, Microsoft Entra ID, or a managed identity.
Runs in the same process as the redesigned Azure Logic Apps runtime.
Runs in the same process as the redesigned Azure Logic Apps runtime.
Service provider-based built-in connectors are available alongside theirmanaged connector versions.
In contrast, a built-in connector that'snot a service providerhas the following attributes:
Isn't based on the Azure Functions extensibility model.
Isn't based on the Azure Functions extensibility model.
Is directly implemented as a job within the Azure Logic Apps runtime, such as Schedule, HTTP, Request, and XML operations.
Is directly implemented as a job within the Azure Logic Apps runtime, such as Schedule, HTTP, Request, and XML operations.

Custom built-in connectors
For Standard workflows, you can create your own built-in connector with the samebuilt-in connector extensibility modelthat's used by service provider-based built-in connectors, such as Azure Blob Storage, Azure Event Hubs, Azure Service Bus, SQL Server, and more. This interface implementation is based on theAzure Functions extensibility modeland provides the capability for you to create custom built-in connectors that anyone can use in Standard workflows.
For Consumption workflows, you can't create your own built-in connectors, but you create your own managed connectors.
For more information, review the following documentation:
Custom connectors in Azure Logic Apps
Create custom built-in connectors for Standard workflows

General built-in connectors
You can use the following built-in connectors to perform general tasks, for example:
Run workflows using custom and advanced schedules. For more information about scheduling, review theRecurrence behavior for connectors in Azure Logic Apps.
Run workflows using custom and advanced schedules. For more information about scheduling, review theRecurrence behavior for connectors in Azure Logic Apps.
Organize and control your workflow's structure, for example, using loops and conditions.
Organize and control your workflow's structure, for example, using loops and conditions.
Work with variables, dates, data operations, content transformations, and batch operations.
Work with variables, dates, data operations, content transformations, and batch operations.
Communicate with other endpoints using HTTP triggers and actions.
Communicate with other endpoints using HTTP triggers and actions.
Receive and respond to requests.
Receive and respond to requests.
Call your own functions (Azure Functions) or other Azure Logic Apps workflows that can receive requests, and so on.
Call your own functions (Azure Functions) or other Azure Logic Apps workflows that can receive requests, and so on.
ScheduleRecurrence: Trigger a workflow based on the specified recurrence.Sliding Window(Consumption workflow only)Trigger a workflow that needs to handle data in continuous chunks.Delay: Pause your workflow for the specified duration.Delay until: Pause your workflow until the specified date and time.
HTTPCall an HTTP or HTTPS endpoint by using either the HTTP trigger or action.You can also use these other built-in HTTP triggers and actions:
HTTP + Swagger
HTTP + Webhook
RequestWhen an HTTP request is received: Wait for a request from another workflow, app, or service. This trigger makes your workflow callable without having to be checked or polled on a schedule.Response: Respond to a request received by theWhen an HTTP request is receivedtrigger in the same workflow.
BatchBatch messages: Trigger a workflow that processes messages in batches.Send messages to batch: Call an existing workflow that currently starts with aBatch messagestrigger.
File System(Standard workflow only)Connect to a file system on your network machine to create and manage files.
FTP(Standard workflow only)Connect to an FTP or FTPS server in your Azure virtual network so that you can work with your files and folders.
SFTP(Standard workflow only)Connect to an SFTP server in your Azure virtual network so that you can work with your files and folders.
SMTP(Standard workflow only)Connect to an SMTP server so that you can send email.

Built-in connectors for specific services and systems
You can use the following built-in connectors to access specific services and systems. In Standard workflows, some of these built-in connectors are also informally known asservice providers, which can differ from their managed connector counterparts in some ways.
Azure AI Search(Standard workflow only)Connect to AI Search so that you can perform document indexing and search operations in your workflow.
Azure API ManagementCall your own triggers and actions in APIs that you define, manage, and publish usingAzure API Management.Note: Not supported when usingConsumption tier for API Management.
Azure App Service(Consumption workflow only)Call apps that you create and host onAzure App Service, for example, API Apps and Web Apps.When Swagger is included, the triggers and actions defined by these apps appear like any other first-class triggers and actions in Azure Logic Apps.
Azure Automation(Standard workflow only)Connect to your Azure Automation accounts so you can create and manage Azure Automation jobs.
Azure Blob Storage(Standard workflow only)Connect to your Azure Blob Storage account so you can create and manage blob content.
Azure Cosmos DB(Standard workflow only)Connect to Azure Cosmos DB so that you can access and manage Azure Cosmos DB documents.
Azure Event Grid Publisher(Standard workflow only)Connect to Azure Event Grid for event-based programming using pub-sub semantics.
Azure Event Hubs(Standard workflow only)Consume and publish events through an event hub. For example, get output from your workflow with Event Hubs, and then send that output to a real-time analytics provider.
Azure File Storage(Standard workflow only)Connect to your Azure Storage account so that you can create, update, and manage files.
Azure FunctionsCallAzure-hosted functionsto run your own code (C# or Node.js) from your workflow.
Azure Key Vault(Standard workflow only)Connect to Azure Key Vault to store, access, and manage secrets.
Azure Logic Apps(Consumption workflow)-or-Workflow Operations(Standard workflow)Call other workflows that start with the Request trigger namedWhen an HTTP request is received.
Azure OpenAI(Standard workflow only)Connect to Azure OpenAI to perform operations on large language models.
Azure Service Bus(Standard workflow only)Manage asynchronous messages, queues, sessions, topics, and topic subscriptions.
Azure Table Storage(Standard workflow only)Connect to your Azure Storage account so that you can create, update, query, and manage tables.
Azure Queue Storage(Standard workflow only)Connect to your Azure Storage account so that you can create, update, and manage queues.
IBM 3270(Standard workflow only)Call 3270 screen-driven apps on IBM mainframes from your workflow.
IBM CICS(Standard workflow only)Call CICS programs on IBM mainframes from your workflow.
IBM DB2(Standard workflow only)Connect to IBM DB2 in the cloud or on-premises. Update a row, get a table, and more.
IBM Host File(Standard workflow only)Connect to IBM Host File and generate or parse contents.
IBM IMS(Standard workflow only)Call IMS programs on IBM mainframes from your workflow.
IBM MQ(Standard workflow only)Connect to IBM MQ on-premises or in Azure to send and receive messages.
JDBC(Standard workflow only)Connect to a relational database using JDBC drivers.
SAP(Standard workflow only)Connect to SAP so you can send or receive messages and invoke actions.
SQL Server(Standard workflow only)Connect to your SQL Server on premises or an Azure SQL Database in the cloud so that you can manage records, run stored procedures, or perform queries.
Run code from workflows
Azure Logic Apps provides the following built-in actions for running your own code in your workflow:
Azure FunctionsCallAzure-hosted functionsto run your own code (C# or Node.js) from your workflow.
Inline Code-Execute JavaScript codefrom your Consumption or Standard workflow.-Execute C# script codefrom your Standard workflow.-Execute PowerShell script codefrom your Standard workflow.
Local Function Operations(Standard workflow only)Create and run .NET Framework codefrom your workflow.
Control workflow
Azure Logic Apps provides the following built-in actions for structuring and controlling the actions in your workflow:
ConditionEvaluate a condition and run different actions based on whether the condition is true or false.
For EachPerform the same actions on every item in an array.
ScopeGroup actions intoscopes, which get their own status after the actions in the scope finish running.
SwitchGroup actions intocases, which are assigned unique values except for the default case. Run only that case whose assigned value matches the result from an expression, object, or token. If no matches exist, run the default case.
TerminateStop an actively running workflow.
UntilRepeat actions until the specified condition is true or some state has changed.
Manage or manipulate data
Azure Logic Apps provides the following built-in actions for working with data outputs and their formats:
Data OperationsPerform operations with data.Chunk text: Split up content into pieces to use in AI solutions or with AI service operations such asAzure OpenAI and Azure AI Search operations. For more information, seeParse or chunk content.Compose: Create a single output from multiple inputs with various types.Create CSV table: Create a comma-separated-value (CSV) table from an array with JSON objects.Create HTML table: Create an HTML table from an array with JSON objects.Filter array: Create an array from items in another array that meet your criteria.Join: Create a string from all items in an array and separate those items with the specified delimiter.Parse a document: Create a tokenized string to use in AI solutions or with AI service operations such asAzure OpenAI and Azure AI Search operations. For more information, seeParse or chunk content.Parse JSON: Create user-friendly tokens from properties and their values in JSON content so that you can use those properties in your workflow.Select: Create an array with JSON objects by transforming items or values in another array and mapping those items to specified properties.
Date TimePerform operations with timestamps.Add to time: Add the specified number of units to a timestamp.Convert time zone: Convert a timestamp from the source time zone to the target time zone.Current time: Return the current timestamp as a string.Get future time: Return the current timestamp plus the specified time units.Get past time: Return the current timestamp minus the specified time units.Subtract from time: Subtract a number of time units from a timestamp.
VariablesPerform operations with variables.Append to array variable: Insert a value as the last item in an array stored by a variable.Append to string variable: Insert a value as the last character in a string stored by a variable.Decrement variable: Decrease a variable by a constant value.Increment variable: Increase a variable by a constant value.Initialize variable: Create a variable and declare its data type and initial value.Set variable: Assign a different value to an existing variable.
XML OperationsPerform operations with XML.Compose XML with schema: Create XML from JSON using a schema for a Standard workflow.Parse XML with schema: Parse XML using a schema for a Standard workflow.Transform XML: Convert XML using a map.Validate XML: Validate inbound or outbound XML using a schema.

Business-to-business (B2B) built-in operations
Azure Logic Apps supports business-to-business (B2B) communication scenarios through various B2B built-in operations. Based on whether you have a Consumption or Standard workflow and the B2B operations that you want to use,you might have to create and link an integration account to your logic app resource. You then use this integration account to define your B2B artifacts, such as trading partners, agreements, maps, schemas, certificates, and so on.
Consumption workflowsBefore you can use any B2B operations in a workflow,you must create and link an integration account to your logic app resource. After you create your integration account, you must then define your B2B artifacts, such as trading partners, agreements, maps, schemas, certificates, and so on. You can then use the B2B operations to encode and decode messages, transform content, and more.
Consumption workflows
Before you can use any B2B operations in a workflow,you must create and link an integration account to your logic app resource. After you create your integration account, you must then define your B2B artifacts, such as trading partners, agreements, maps, schemas, certificates, and so on. You can then use the B2B operations to encode and decode messages, transform content, and more.
Standard workflowsSome B2B operations require that youcreate and link an integration account to your logic app resource. Linking lets you share artifacts across multiple Standard workflows and their child workflows. Based on the B2B operation that you want to use, complete one of the following steps before you use the operation:For operations that require maps or schemas, you can either:Upload these artifacts to your logic app resource using the Azure portal or Visual Studio Code. You can then use these artifacts across all child workflows in thesamelogic app resource. For more information, reviewAdd maps to use with workflows in Azure Logic AppsandAdd schemas to use with workflows in Azure Logic Apps.Link your logic app resource to your integration account.For operations that require a connection to your integration account, create the connection when you add the operation to your workflow.
Standard workflows
Some B2B operations require that youcreate and link an integration account to your logic app resource. Linking lets you share artifacts across multiple Standard workflows and their child workflows. Based on the B2B operation that you want to use, complete one of the following steps before you use the operation:
For operations that require maps or schemas, you can either:Upload these artifacts to your logic app resource using the Azure portal or Visual Studio Code. You can then use these artifacts across all child workflows in thesamelogic app resource. For more information, reviewAdd maps to use with workflows in Azure Logic AppsandAdd schemas to use with workflows in Azure Logic Apps.Link your logic app resource to your integration account.
For operations that require maps or schemas, you can either:
Upload these artifacts to your logic app resource using the Azure portal or Visual Studio Code. You can then use these artifacts across all child workflows in thesamelogic app resource. For more information, reviewAdd maps to use with workflows in Azure Logic AppsandAdd schemas to use with workflows in Azure Logic Apps.
Upload these artifacts to your logic app resource using the Azure portal or Visual Studio Code. You can then use these artifacts across all child workflows in thesamelogic app resource. For more information, reviewAdd maps to use with workflows in Azure Logic AppsandAdd schemas to use with workflows in Azure Logic Apps.
Link your logic app resource to your integration account.
Link your logic app resource to your integration account.
For operations that require a connection to your integration account, create the connection when you add the operation to your workflow.
For operations that require a connection to your integration account, create the connection when you add the operation to your workflow.
For more information, review the following documentation:
Business-to-business (B2B) enterprise integration workflows
Create and manage integration accounts for B2B workflows
AS2 (v2)(Standard workflow only)Encode and decode messages that use the AS2 protocol.
EDIFACTEncode and decode messages that use the EDIFACT protocol.
Flat FileEncode and decode XML messages between trading partners.
Integration Account Artifact LookupGet custom metadata for artifacts, such as trading partners, agreements, schemas, and so on, in your integration account.
Liquid OperationsConvert the following formats by using Liquid templates:- JSON to JSON- JSON to TEXT- XML to JSON- XML to TEXT
RosettaNetEncode and decode messages that use the RosettaNet protocol.
SWIFT(Standard workflow only)Encode and decode Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) transactions in flat-file XML message format.
X12Encode and decode messages that use the X12 protocol.
XML OperationsPerform operations with XML.Compose XML with schema: Create XML from JSON using a schema for a Standard workflow.Parse XML with schema: Parse XML using a schema for a Standard workflow.Transform XML: Convert XML using a map.Validate XML: Validate inbound or outbound XML using a schema.
Next steps
Create custom APIs that you can call from Azure Logic Apps
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources