Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure API Management v2 tiers
Article
2024-11-20
4 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: Basic v2 | Standard v2 | Premium v2
The API Management v2 tiers (SKUs) are built on a new, more reliable and scalable platform and are designed to make API Management accessible to a broader set of customers and offer flexible options for a wider variety of scenarios. The v2 tiers are in addition to the existing classic tiers (Developer, Basic, Standard, and Premium) and the Consumption tier.See detailed comparison of API Management tiers.
The following v2 tiers are generally available:
Basic v2- The Basic v2 tier is designed for development and testing scenarios, and is supported with an SLA.
Basic v2- The Basic v2 tier is designed for development and testing scenarios, and is supported with an SLA.
Standard v2- Standard v2 is a production-ready tier with support for network-isolated backends.
Standard v2- Standard v2 is a production-ready tier with support for network-isolated backends.
The following v2 tier is in preview:
Premium v2- Premium v2 offers enterprise features including full virtual network isolation and scaling for high volume workloads.NoteThe Premium v2 tier is currently in limited preview. To sign up, fillthis form.
Premium v2- Premium v2 offers enterprise features including full virtual network isolation and scaling for high volume workloads.
Note
The Premium v2 tier is currently in limited preview. To sign up, fillthis form.
Key capabilities
Faster deployment, configuration, and scaling- Deploy a production-ready API Management instance in minutes. Quickly apply configurations such as certificate and hostname updates. Scale a Basic v2 or Standard v2 instance quickly to up to 10 units to meet the needs of your API management workloads. Scale a Premium v2 instance to up to 30 units.
Faster deployment, configuration, and scaling- Deploy a production-ready API Management instance in minutes. Quickly apply configurations such as certificate and hostname updates. Scale a Basic v2 or Standard v2 instance quickly to up to 10 units to meet the needs of your API management workloads. Scale a Premium v2 instance to up to 30 units.
Simplified networking- The Standard v2 and Premium v2 tiers providenetworking optionsto isolate API Management's inbound and outbound traffic.
Simplified networking- The Standard v2 and Premium v2 tiers providenetworking optionsto isolate API Management's inbound and outbound traffic.
More options for production workloads- The v2 tiers are all supported with an SLA.
More options for production workloads- The v2 tiers are all supported with an SLA.
Developer portal options- Enable thedeveloper portalwhen you're ready to let API consumers discover your APIs.
Developer portal options- Enable thedeveloper portalwhen you're ready to let API consumers discover your APIs.
Features
API version
The latest capabilities of the v2 tiers are supported in API Management API version2024-05-01or later.
Networking options
Standard v2andPremium v2supportvirtual network integrationto allow your API Management instance to reach API backends that are isolated in a single connected virtual network. The API Management gateway, management plane, and developer portal remain publicly accessible from the internet. The virtual network must be in the same region and subscription as the API Management instance.Learn more.In preview,Standard v2also supports inboundprivate endpoint connectionsto the API Management gateway.
Standard v2andPremium v2supportvirtual network integrationto allow your API Management instance to reach API backends that are isolated in a single connected virtual network. The API Management gateway, management plane, and developer portal remain publicly accessible from the internet. The virtual network must be in the same region and subscription as the API Management instance.Learn more.
In preview,Standard v2also supports inboundprivate endpoint connectionsto the API Management gateway.
Premium v2also supports simplifiedvirtual network injectionfor complete isolation of inbound and outbound gateway traffic without requiring network security group rules, route tables, or service endpoints. The virtual network must be in the same region and subscription as the API Management instance.Learn more.
Premium v2also supports simplifiedvirtual network injectionfor complete isolation of inbound and outbound gateway traffic without requiring network security group rules, route tables, or service endpoints. The virtual network must be in the same region and subscription as the API Management instance.Learn more.
Supported regions
For a current list of regions where the v2 tiers are available, seeAvailability of v2 tiers and workspace gateways.
Classic feature availability
Most capabilities of the classic API Management tiers are supported in the v2 tiers. However, the following capabilities aren't supported in the v2 tiers:
API Management service configuration using Git
Back up and restore of API Management instance
Enabling Azure DDoS Protection
Direct Management API access
Limitations
The following API Management capabilities are currently unavailable in the v2 tiers.
Infrastructure and networking
Multi-region deployment
Availability zone support
Multiple custom domain names
Capacity metric -replaced by CPU Percentage of Gateway and Memory Percentage of Gateway metrics
Built-in analytics -replaced by Azure Monitor-based dashboard
Autoscaling
Upgrade to v2 tiers from classic tiers
CA Certificates
Sending events to Event Grid
Developer portal
Reports
Custom HTML code widget and custom widget
Self-hosted developer portal
Gateway
Self-hosted gateway
Quota by key policy
Cipher configuration
Client certificate renegotiation
Free, managed TLS certificate
Requests to the gateway over localhost
Resource limits
The following resource limits apply to the v2 tiers.
To request a limit increase, create a support request from the Azure portal. For more information, seeAzure support plans.
1Connections are pooled and reused unless explicitly closed by the backend.2Includes an up to 2048-bytes long query string.3Up to a maximum of 60,000 connections per service instance.
Developer portal limits
The following limits apply to the developer portal in the v2 tiers.
1Limit for built-in widgets such as text, images, or APIs list. Currently, custom widgets and custom HTML code widgets aren't supported in the v2 tiers.
Deployment
Deploy a v2 tier instance using the Azure portal or using tools such as the Azure REST API, Azure Resource Manager, Bicep template, or Terraform.
Frequently asked questions
Q: Can I migrate from my existing API Management instance to a new v2 tier instance?
A: No. Currently you can't migrate an existing API Management instance (in the Consumption, Developer, Basic, Standard, or Premium tier) to a new v2 tier instance. Currently the v2 tiers are available for newly created service instances only.
Q: What's the relationship between the stv2 compute platform and the v2 tiers?
A: They're not related. stv2 is acompute platformversion of the Developer, Basic, Standard, and Premium tier service instances. stv2 is a successor to the stv1 compute platformthat retired in 2024.
Q: Will I still be able to provision Developer, Basic, Standard, or Premium tier services?
A: Yes, there are no changes to the classic Developer, Basic, Standard, or Premium tiers.
Q: What is the difference between virtual network integration in Standard v2 tier and virtual network injection in the Premium and Premium v2 tiers?
A: A Standard v2 service instance can be integrated with a virtual network to provide secure access to the backends residing there. A Standard v2 service instance integrated with a virtual network has a public IP address for inbound access.
The Premium tier and Premium v2 tier support full network isolation by deployment (injection) into a virtual network without exposing a public IP address.Learn more about networking options in API Management.
Q: Can I deploy an instance of the Basic v2 or Standard v2 tier entirely in my virtual network?
A: No, such a deployment is only supported in the Premium and Premium v2 tiers.
Related content
Compare the API Managementtiers.
Learn more about theAPI Management gateways
Learn aboutAPI Management pricing.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources