Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
IP addresses and domains for Azure Databricks services and assets
Article
2025-04-24
2 contributors
In this article
This article lists IP addresses and domains for Azure Databricks services and assets.
You may need this information if your Azure Databricks workspace is deployed to your own virtual network (VNet) and you use custom routes, also known as user-defined routes (UDR), to manage network traffic using a virtual appliance or firewall.
SeeUser-defined route settings for Azure Databricks.
Databricks strongly recommends that you use the Azure Databricks service tag instead of specific IP addresses.Azure service tagsrepresent a group of IP address prefixes from a given Azure service. The Azure Databricks service tag represents IP addresses for the required outbound connections to the Azure Databricks control plane, thesecure cluster connectivity (SCC), and the Azure Databricks web application. Azure Databricks manages the address prefixes encompassed by the service tag and automatically updates the service tag as addresses change. This helps to prevent service outages due to IP changes and removes the need to periodically look up these IPs and update them.
Azure Databricks control plane addresses
The IP addresses you use to route network traffic depend on whether or not your Azure Databricks workspace usessecure cluster connectivity (SCC):
Secure cluster connectivityenabled: use theSCC relayvalue and theControl Plane IPs, including webappvalues for the workspace region. These values are in theInbound to Azure Databricks control planesection.
Secure cluster connectivitydisabled: use theControl Plane IPs, including webappvalues for the workspace region from theInbound to Azure Databricks control planesection and theControl Plane NATvalues for the workspace region in theOutbound from Azure Databricks control plane effective May 20th, 2025section.
Most regions have multiple IP address ranges for the control plane IPs, Webapp, and NAT. This is because those regions contain more infrastructure services than others. Your workspace will be assigned to infrastructure services at one IP address for the control plane NAT and one for the Webapp during workspace creation. Your workspace will not be accessible by the infrastructure services at the other IP addresses, because data and secrets are not shared between infrastructure services within a region. There are therefore no security issues with having multiple IP addresses specified in your network security groups.
Inbound to Azure Databricks control plane
Outbound from Azure Databricks control plane effective until September 30th, 2025
These values are used only if secure cluster connectivity is disabled.
Note
Starting on May 20th, 2025, Databricks will deploy new components for our control plane service. These changes will improve the security and zone support availability of our control plane services. Between August 4th, 2025, and September 30th, 2025, youmustremove the following IPs. Do not remove these IPs before August 4th, 2025.
Outbound from Azure Databricks control plane effective May 20th, 2025
These values are used only if secure cluster connectivity is disabled.
Note
Starting on May 20th, 2025, Databricks will deploy new components for our control plane service. These changes will improve the security and zone support availability of our control plane services. Youmustadd these IPs before May 20th, 2025.
DBFS root storage IP address
To get IP addresses for DBFS root storage:
Go to the workspace instance in Azure portal.
Click the workspace’s managed resource group name.
In the list of resources, find a storage account with the name in the formatdbstorage************and copy it.
dbstorage************
Get the endpoint domains, using the storage account name that you copied:Domain<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net. For example,dbstorage9875b57ac95c.blob.core.windows.net.Domain<storage-account-name>.dfs.core.windows.net. For example,dbstorage9875b57ac95c.dfs.core.windows.net.
Domain<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net. For example,dbstorage9875b57ac95c.blob.core.windows.net.
<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net
dbstorage9875b57ac95c.blob.core.windows.net
Domain<storage-account-name>.dfs.core.windows.net. For example,dbstorage9875b57ac95c.dfs.core.windows.net.
<storage-account-name>.dfs.core.windows.net
dbstorage9875b57ac95c.dfs.core.windows.net
Look up the IP addresses for these domain names.
Create two UDRs to these IP addresses so that the UDRs route the traffic to the Azure Storage service.
Metastore, artifact Blob storage, system tables storage, log Blob storage, and Event Hubs endpoint IP addresses
To get the workspace-level Hive metastore, artifact Blob storage, system tables storage, log Blob storage, and Event Hubs IP addresses, you must use their domain names, provided in the following table, to look up the IP addresses.
Warning
Hive metastore, artifact Blob storage, log Blob storage, DBFS root Blob storage, and Event Hubs endpoint IPs can change over time. To prevent a service outage due to IP changes, we suggest that you useAzure service tagsin your route table. You can also establish a periodic job to look up these IPs automatically and keep them up to date in your route table.
Because metastore IP addresses can change over time, sometimes the same IP address is assigned to the primary and secondary metastores (for regions that have secondary metastores). In that case, you should include only one of the metastores in your route table.
Note
When using an external Hive metastore, make sure there are no existing DNS records formysql.database.azure.comin any of the domain controllers or Private DNS Zones connected to the VNet associated with Azure Databricks. If there are DNS records, there must be an additional subdomain.
mysql.database.azure.com
Reserved IP ranges for Databricks internal use
Databricks reserves certain IP ranges for internal applications to avoid potential IP conflicts. Customers should avoid using these ranges in their network configurations:
127.187.216.0/24
192.168.216.0/24
198.18.216.0/24
These reserved IP ranges apply to all types of workspaces and all cluster types, including classic and serverless clusters, as well as Databricks Container Service clusters.
Databricks Container Service clusters
For Databricks Container Service (DCS) clusters, you should also avoid using the default Docker network range:
172.17.0.0/16
By reserving these IP ranges for Databricks internal use and avoiding the default Docker network range for DCS clusters, you can help prevent potential IP conflicts and ensure the smooth operation of your Databricks environment.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources