Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc
Article
2025-04-25
2 contributors
In this article
Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arcis an Azure Arc extension enabled service that runs video and audio analysis, andgenerative AIon edge devices. The solution is designed to run onAzure Arc enabled Kubernetesand supports many video formats, and assumes that one Video Indexer resource is mapped to one extension. It can transcribe spoken content in more than 35 source languages and supports translation to English. For a full list of supported languages, seeSupported languages per scenario.
If you aren't already familiar withAzure AI Video Indexer, we recommend that you familiarize yourself with the cloud service first.
Additionally, before you start working with Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc, review thetransparency noteto understand usage restrictions.
Important
To successfully deploy the Azure AI Video Indexer extension, it'smandatorythat your Azure subscription ID is approved in advance. You must first sign up using the form atApplication for gated services.
What is Azure Arc and Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes?
Azure Arc simplifies governance and management of complex environments that extend across data centers, multiple clouds, and edge by delivering a consistent multicloud and on-premises management platform.
Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes allows you to attach Kubernetes clusters running anywhere so that you can manage and configure them in Azure. By managing all of your Kubernetes resources in a single control plane, you can enable a more consistent development and operations experience to run cloud-native apps anywhere and on any Kubernetes platform.
When the Azure Arc agents get deployed to the cluster, an outbound connection to Azure is initiated, using industry-standard SSL to secure data in transit.
Once clusters are connected to Azure, they're represented as their own resources in Azure Resource Manager (ARM), and they can be organized using resource groups and tagging.
For more information about Azure Arc and Arc-enabled Kubernetes, seeAzure Arc overviewandWhat is Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes?
What is an Azure Arc extension?
Virtual machine (VM) extensions are small applications that provide post-deployment configuration and automation tasks on Azure VMs. For example, if a virtual machine requires software installation, anti-virus protection, or to run a script in it, a VM extension can be used. For more information about extensions, seeVirtual machine extension management with Azure Arc-enabled servers.
The Azure AI Video Indexer extension installs and deploys Azure AI Video indexer to the Kubernetes cluster.
Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc only supports Azure Resource Manager accounts. Resource Manager operations are decoupled from video insight operations. This design allows you to perform analysis on your edge devices without the need to upload your media assets to Azure.
The extension is supported indirect connection modescenarios only. While all processing is performed in the edge environment, control plane information is sent to the cloud for billing and monitoring purposes. New extension versions are downloaded from the cloud. No customer data, such as what videos were indexed or indexed insights, are sent from the edge location to the cloud.
Language models
The Phi language model is included and automatically connected with your VI extension. You can start using it immediately. For more information about using language models with VI, see:
Use textual summarization
Use Azure AI Video Indexer to create prompt content
Azure AI Video Indexer Bring Your Own (BYO) AI model overview
See also thetransparency note for textual summarization with VI enabled by Arcfor hardware requirements, limitations, and known issues.
Use cases
Data governance– You can bring the AI to the content instead of vice versa. Use Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc when you can’t move indexed content from on-premises to the cloud due to:Regulations.Architecture decisions.Data store being too large, making lift and shift a significant effort.
Regulations.
Architecture decisions.
Data store being too large, making lift and shift a significant effort.
On-premises workflow– Your indexing process is part of an on-premises workflow, and you want to lower the indexing duration latency affecting the flow.
Pre-indexing– You want to index before uploading the content to the cloud. To create clarity, you can presort your on-premises video or audio archive, and then only upload it for standard or advanced indexing in the cloud.
Example deployment
The following diagram shows the Azure AI Video Indexer extension running on Azure Arc. There are three types:
Store type A uses both vision and audio presets.
Store type B uses only vision presets. It also has a custom model. For more information about using a custom model with Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc, seeBring Your Own AI model.
Store C uses only audio presets.
The extension is stored on each edge device and each device is associated with a single Azure AI Video Indexer account that interfaces with Azure Arc and the cloud.

Supported AI presets
Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc supports the following indexing presets:
Minimum hardware requirements
Video Indexer enabled by Arc is designed to run on any Arc enabled Kubernetes environment.
Note
The following table covers minimum requirements for aproductionenvironment. We recommend at least a two-node cluster for high availability and scalability. The recommended settings refer to cluster-wide settings. So for example, if you have two nodes, each node should have 16 cores and 32 GB of RAM. We recommend creating a dedicated node-pool or autoscaling groups to host the VI solution.
ReadWriteMany
ReadWriteMany
Minimum software requirements
Supported input formats and codecs
The following section lists the supported input formats and codecs for Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc.
Video formats
AVI (.avi)
FLV (with H.264 and AAC codecs) (.flv)
ISMV (.isma, .ismv)
Matroska (.mkv)
MP4 (.mp4, .m4a, .m4v)
MXF (.mxf)
MPEG2-TS
QuickTime (.mov)
WAVE/WAV (.wav)
Windows Media Video (WMV)/ASF (.wmv, .asf)
Video codecs
AVC 8-bit/10-bit, up to 4:2:2, including AVCIntra
Digital video (DV) (in AVI files)
DVCPro/DVCProHD (in MXF container)
HEVC/H.265
MPEG-1
MPEG-2 (up to 422 Profile and High Level; including variants such as Sony XDCAM, Sony XDCAM HD, Sony XDCAM IMX, CableLabs®, and D10)
MPEG-4 Part 2
VC-1/WMV9
Audio codecs up to two tracks
AAC (AAC-LC, AAC-HE, and AAC-HEv2)
FLAC
MPEG Layer 2
MP3 (MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3)
VORBIS
WAV/PCM
Windows Media Audio
Bring your own model
Azure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc also supports bringing your own model. For more information, see theBring Your Own Model (BYO)article.
Limitations
The supported file size for indexing is up to 2 GB.
Upgrading the extension:Extension support applies to the latest version only.We recommend setting theauto-upgradeproperty totrue. The setting keeps the extension up to date.If the auto upgrade setting is set to false, you should upgrade the version incrementally. Jumping between versions can cause indexing processes to fail.
Extension support applies to the latest version only.
We recommend setting theauto-upgradeproperty totrue. The setting keeps the extension up to date.
auto-upgrade
true
If the auto upgrade setting is set to false, you should upgrade the version incrementally. Jumping between versions can cause indexing processes to fail.
After extension installation or upgrade, expect thefirstindex\translation process duration to be longer than normal. The longer duration is due to AI model image download. The duration varies depending on network speed.
Only one Video Indexer extension can be deployed per Arc enabled Kubernetes cluster.
The cluster's volume performance (based on storage class) has significant influence on the turnover duration of the indexing job especially since the frame extraction is writing all frames into the volume.
Only extension access tokens are supported. You can obtain extension access tokens from API/CLI. For samples to get-access-token, seeHow to access the extension.
Video error messages aren't stored due to memory limitations.
Azure Container Storage enabled by Arc
We recommend that you use Azure Container Storage enabled by Azure Arc for storage. For more information, see the following articles:
What is Azure Container Storage enabled by Azure Arc?
Prepare Linux for Edge Volumes
Related content
Try theAzure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc sample on GitHub
Try theAzure AI Video Indexer enable by Arc Jumpstart
Try deploying in the Azure portal using theAzure AI Video Indexer enabled by Arc quickstart
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources