Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Data management landing zone
Article
2025-02-21
10 contributors
In this article
A data management landing zone is essential for cloud-scale analytics. It oversees the governance of your entire analytics platform.

A data management landing zone is a separate subscription that has the same standard Azure landing zone services. It provides data governance through crawlers, which connect to data lakes and polyglot storage in data landing zones. Virtual network peering connects the data management landing zone to the data landing zones and connectivity subscription.
This architecture is a starting point. You can modify it to fit your specific business and technical requirements when you plan your data management landing zone implementation.
Note
Polyglot persistencerefers to the practice of using multiple data storage or data store technologies to support your data types and their storage needs. Polyglot persistence means that an application can use more than one core database or storage technology.
Important
You must deploy your data management landing zone as a separate subscription under a management group that has the appropriate governance. Then you can control governance across your organization. TheAzure landing zone acceleratordescribes how you should approach Azure landing zones.
Data governance
The Azure cloud-scale analytics framework suggests that you use Microsoft Purview. Alternatively, you can deploy non-Microsoft solutions to manage specific data governance functions.
Consider the following key functions in your architecture:
A global data catalog
Primary data management
Data sharing and contracts
An API catalog
Data quality management
A data modeling repository
If you have partner data governance products that require deployment in a subscription, deploy them to the data governance resource group within the data management landing zone.
Data catalog
A data catalog registers and maintains data information in a centralized place so that it's available for your organization. It minimizes the chance of different project teams ingesting redundant data, which prevents duplicate data products. We recommend that you create a data catalog service to define the metadata of data products that you store across data landing zones.
Cloud-scale analytics relies onMicrosoft Purviewto register enterprise data sources, classify them, ensure data quality, and provide highly secure, self-service access.
Microsoft Purview is a tenant-based service that can communicate with each data landing zone. It creates a managed virtual network and deploys it to your data landing zone region. You can deploy Azure managed virtual network integration runtimes (IR) within these managed virtual networks in any available Microsoft Purview region. The managed virtual network IR can then use private endpoints to securely connect to and scan the supported data sources. This approach helps isolate and secure the data integration process. For more information, seeUse managed virtual networks with your Microsoft Purview account.
If you use Azure Databricks, we recommend usingAzure Databricks Unity Catalogin addition to Microsoft Purview. Unity Catalog provides centralized access control, auditing, lineage, and data discovery capabilities across Databricks workspaces. For more information, seeUnity Catalog best practices.
Note
This article focuses on using Microsoft Purview for governance, but your enterprise might have investments in other products, such as Alation, Okera, or Collibra. These solutions are subscription-based. We recommend that you deploy them to the data management landing zone. They might require custom integration.
Primary data management
Primary data management control resides in the data management landing zone. For specific data mesh considerations, seePrimary data management in data mesh.
Many primary data management solutions fully integrate with Microsoft Entra ID, which helps secure your data and provide different views for different user groups. For more information, seePrimary data management system.
Data sharing and contracts
Cloud-scale analytics usesMicrosoft Entra entitlement managementorMicrosoft Purview policiesto control access to data sharing. In addition to those features, you might require a sharing and contract repository. This repository is an organizational function and should reside in your data management landing zone. Your contracts should provide information about data validation, models, and security policies. For more information, seeData contracts.
API catalog
Your data application teams create various APIs for their data applications, which can be hard to find across your organization. To address this problem, place an API catalog in your data management landing zone.
An API catalog standardizes your documentation, facilitates internal collaboration, and enhances consumption, publishing, and governance controls across your organization.
Data quality management
Use your existing data quality management practices. To prevent problems from spreading across your analytics and AI systems, manage data quality at the data source.
Integrate quality metrics and validation into your data processes so that the teams most familiar with the data handle quality management. This approach helps ensure that your team has a deeper understanding and better handling of the data assets. Provide data lineage for all data products to improve data quality confidence.
For more information, seeData quality.
Data modeling repository
Store entity relationship models centrally within your data management landing zone so that data consumers can easily find conceptual diagrams. To model your data products before ingestion, use tools likeER/StudioandOrbusInfinity.
Service layer
Your organization might create several automation services to augment cloud-scale analytics capabilities. These automation services drive conformity and onboarding solutions for your analytics state.
If you build these automation services, a user interface should serve as both a data marketplace and an operation console. This interface should rely on an underlying metadata store, such asmetadata standards.
Your data marketplace or operations console calls a middle tier of microservices to facilitate onboarding, metadata registration, security provisioning, data lifecycle, and observability. You can provision the service layer resource group to host your metadata store.
Important
The following automation services aren't actual products that you can purchase. And they don't represent future releases or updates. Use the following list to help you consider which items to automate.
Azure Container Registry
Your data management landing zone hosts an Azure Container Registry instance. Data platform operations can use Container Registry to deploy standard containers for data science projects that your data application teams consume.
Next step
Overview of data landing zones
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources