Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Innovation tools to democratize data in Azure
Article
2023-09-12
8 contributors
In this article
As the conceptual article ondemocratizing datadescribes, you can deliver many data collection innovations with little technical investment. Major innovations often require raw data. Democratizing data is about investing the least resources needed to engage your customers. The customers then use the data to take advantage of their existing knowledge.
Starting with data democratization is a quick way to test a hypothesis before expanding into broader, more costly digital inventions. As you refine more of the hypothesis and begin to adopt the inventions at scale, the following processes will help you prepare for operational support of the innovation.

Alignment to the methodology
This type of digital invention can be accelerated through each phase of the following processes, as shown in the preceding image. Technical guidance to accelerate digital invention is listed in the table of contents on the left side of this page. Those articles are grouped by phase to align guidance with the overall methodology.
Share collected data:The first step of democratizing data is to share openly.
Govern data:Ensure that sensitive data is secured, tracked, and governed before sharing.
Centralize data:Sometimes you need to provide a centralized platform for data democratization, sharing, and governance.
Collect data:Migration, integration, ingestion, and virtualization can each collect existing data to be centralized, governed, and shared.
In every iteration, cloud adoption teams should go only as deep into the stack as they require to put the focus on customer needs over architecture. Delaying technical spikes in favor of customer needs accelerates the validation of your hypothesis.
All guidance maps to the four preceding processes. Guidance ranges from the highest customer effect to the highest technical effect. Across each process, you'll see guidance on ways Azure can accelerate your ability tobuild with customer empathy.
Toolchain
In Azure, the following innovation tools are commonly used to accelerate digital invention across the preceding phases:
Power BI
Azure Data Catalog
Azure Synapse Analytics
Azure Cosmos DB
Azure Database for PostgreSQL
Azure Database for MySQL
Azure Database for MariaDB
Azure Database for PostgreSQL hyperscale
Azure Data Lake Storage
Azure Database Migration Service
Azure SQL Database, with or without Azure SQL Managed Instance
Azure Data Factory
Azure Stream Analytics
SQL Server Integration Services
Azure Stack
SQL Server Stretch Database
Azure StorSimple
Azure Files
Azure File Sync
PolyBase
As the invention approaches adoption at scale, the aspects of each solution require refinement and technical maturity. As that happens, more of these services are likely to be required. Use the table of contents on the left side of this page for Azure tools guidance relevant to your hypothesis-testing process.
Get started
Below you'll find articles to help you get started with each of the tools in this toolchain.
Note
The following links will leave the Cloud Adoption Framework, as they reference supporting content that's beyond the scope of CAF.
Share data with experts
Quickly generate data insights
Sharing data with coworkers and partners
Embed reports in a website or portal
Create new workspaces in Power BI
Govern data
Classify data(CAF)
Secure data
Annotate data with Azure Data Catalog
Document data sources with Azure Data Catalog
Centralize data
Create and query an Azure Synapse Analytics SQL pool
Best practices for loading data for data warehousing
Visualize warehouse data with Power BI
Reference architecture for enterprise BI with Azure Synapse Analytics
Manage enterprise big data with Azure Data Lake Storage
What is a data lake?
Collect data
Integrate cloud data sources with a SQL Analytics data warehouse
Load on-premises data into Azure Synapse Analytics
Integrate data - Azure Data Factory to OLAP
Use Azure Stream Analytics with Azure Synapse Analytics
Reference architecture for ingestion and analysis of new feeds
Load data into Azure Synapse Analytics SQL pool
Next steps
Learn about tools to create applications that engage customers beyond raw data.
Engage via applications
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources