Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Speech service encryption of data at rest
Article
2025-03-10
2 contributors
In this article
Speech service automatically encrypts your data when it's persisted it to the cloud. Speech service encryption protects your data and to help you to meet your organizational security and compliance commitments.
About Azure AI services encryption
Data is encrypted and decrypted usingFIPS 140-2compliant256-bit AESencryption. Encryption and decryption are transparent, meaning encryption and access are managed for you. Your data is secure by default and you don't need to modify your code or applications to take advantage of encryption.
About encryption key management
When you use custom speech and custom voice, Speech service might store the following data in the cloud:
Speech trace data - only if your turn the trace on for your custom endpoint
Uploaded training and test data
By default, your data are stored in Microsoft's storage and your subscription uses Microsoft-managed encryption keys. You also have an option to prepare your own storage account. Access to the store is managed by the Managed Identity, and Speech service can't directly access to your own data, such as speech trace data, customization training data and custom models.
For more information about Managed Identity, seeWhat are managed identities.
Bring your own storage (BYOS)
Bring your own storage (BYOS) is an Azure AI technology for customers, who have high requirements for data security and privacy. The core of the technology is the ability to associate an Azure Storage account, that the user owns and fully controls with the Speech resource. The Speech resource then uses this storage account for storing different artifacts related to the user data processing, instead of storing the same artifacts within the Speech service premises as it is done in the regular case. This approach allows using all set of security features of Azure Storage account, including encrypting the data with the Customer-managed keys, using Private endpoints to access the data, etc.
The Speech service doesn't currently support Customer Lockbox. However, customer data can be stored using BYOS, allowing you to achieve similar data controls toCustomer Lockbox.
Important
Microsoftdoes notuse customer data to improve its Speech models. Additionally, if endpoint logging is disabled and no customizations are used, then no customer data is stored.
See detailed information on using BYOS-enabled Speech resource inthis article.
Next steps
Set up the Bring your own storage (BYOS) Speech resource
What are managed identities.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources