Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Diagnostic logs for Network Security Perimeter
Article
2025-04-16
5 contributors
In this article
In this article, you learn about the diagnostic logs for Network Security Perimeter and how to enable logging. You learn access logs categories used. Then, you discover the options for storing diagnostic logs and how to enable logging through the Azure portal.
Important
Network Security Perimeter is in public preview and available in all Azure public cloud regions.
This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads.
Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities.
For more information, seeSupplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews.
Access logs categories
Access logs categories for a network security perimeter are based on the results of access rules evaluation. The log categories chosen in the diagnostic settings are sent to the customer chosen storage location. The following are the descriptions for each of the access log categories including the modes in which they're applicable:
Logging destination options for access logs
The destinations for storing diagnostic logs for a network security perimeter include services like Log Analytic workspace, Azure Storage account, and Azure Event Hubs. For the full list and details of supported destinations, seeSupported destinations for diagnostic logs.
Enable logging through the Azure portal
You can enable diagnostic logging for a network security perimeter by using the Azure portal under Diagnostic settings. When adding a diagnostic setting, you can choose the log categories you want to collect and the destination where you want to deliver the logs.

Note
When using Azure Monitor with a network security perimeter, the Log Analytics workspace to be associated with the network security perimeter needs to be located in one of the Azure Monitor supported regions.
Warning
The log destinations must be within the same network security perimeter as the PaaS resource to ensure the proper flow of PaaS resource logs. Configuring/already configured Diagnostic Settings for resources not included in the list ofOnboarded private link resources, will result in the cessation of log flow for those resources.
Next steps
Create a network security perimeter in the Azure portal
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources