Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Support matrix for migration of physical servers, AWS VMs, and GCP VMs
Article
2025-01-27
11 contributors
In this article
This article summarizes support settings and limitations for migrating physical servers, Amazon Web Services (AWS) virtual machines (VMs), and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) VMs to Azure withMigration and modernization. If you're looking for information about assessing physical servers for migration to Azure, see theassessment support matrix.
Migrate machines as physical
You can migrate on-premises machines as physical servers by using agent-based replication. By using this tool, you can migrate a wide range of machines to Azure, such as:
On-premises physical servers.
VMs virtualized by platforms, such as Xen and KVM.
Hyper-V VMs or VMware VMs, if for some reason you don't want to use the standardHyper-VorVMwareflows.
VMs running in private clouds.
VMs running in public clouds, including AWS or GCP.
Migration limitations
You can select up to 10 machines at once for replication. If you want to migrate more machines, replicate them in groups of 10.
Physical server requirements
The following table summarizes support for physical servers, AWS VMs, and GCP VMs that you want to migrate by using agent-based migration.
Replication appliance requirements
If you set up the replication appliance manually, make sure that it complies with the requirements summarized in the table. When you set up the Azure Migrate replication appliance as a VMware VM by using the Open Virtual Appliance template provided in the Azure Migrate and Modernize hub, the appliance is set up with Windows Server 2016 and complies with the support requirements.
Learn aboutreplication appliance requirements.
Install MySQL on the appliance. Learn aboutinstallation options.
Learn aboutURLsthe replication appliance needs to access.
Azure VM requirements
All on-premises VMs replicated to Azure must meet the Azure VM requirements summarized in this table. When Site Recovery runs a prerequisites check for replication, the check fails if some of the requirements aren't met.
Next steps
Migratephysical servers.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources