Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Department of Defense (DoD) Impact Level 5 (IL5)
Article
2023-04-05
1 contributor
In this article
DoD IL5 overview
The Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) is an agency of the US Department of Defense (DoD) that is responsible for developing and maintaining the DoD Cloud ComputingSecurity Requirements Guide (SRG). The Cloud Computing SRG defines the baseline security requirements used by DoD to assess the security posture of a cloud service offering (CSO), supporting the decision to grant a DoD provisional authorization (PA) that allows a cloud service provider (CSP) to host DoD missions. It incorporates, supersedes, and rescinds the previously published DoD Cloud Security Model (CSM), and maps to the DoD Risk Management Framework (RMF).
DISA guides DoD agencies and departments in planning and authorizing the use of a CSO. It also evaluates CSOs for compliance with the SRG — an authorization process whereby CSPs can furnish documentation outlining their compliance with DoD standards. It issues DoD provisional authorizations (PAs) when appropriate, so DoD agencies and supporting organizations can use cloud services without having to go through a full approval process on their own, saving time and effort.
According to Section 3.1.3 (Page 19) of theCloud Computing SRG, IL5 information covers:
Controlled unclassified information (CUI) that requires higher level of protection than that afforded by IL4TheCUI Registryprovides specific categories of information that is under protection by the Executive branch, for example, more than 20 category groupings are included in theCUI category list, such as:Critical infrastructure (for example, Critical Energy Infrastructure Information)Defense (for example, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information, Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information – Defense)Export Control (for example,Export Administration Regulations (EAR)restrictions for items on theCommerce Control List, orInternational Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)restrictions for items on theUS Munitions List)Financial (for example, bank secrecy, budget, and so on)Intelligence (for example, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act)Law enforcement (for example, criminal history records, accident investigations, and so on)Nuclear (for example,Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information– Energy)Privacy (for example, military personnel records, health information, and so on)And moreThe National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)SP 800-171Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizationsis intended for use by federal agencies in contracts or other agreements established with non-federal organizations.
Controlled unclassified information (CUI) that requires higher level of protection than that afforded by IL4
TheCUI Registryprovides specific categories of information that is under protection by the Executive branch, for example, more than 20 category groupings are included in theCUI category list, such as:Critical infrastructure (for example, Critical Energy Infrastructure Information)Defense (for example, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information, Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information – Defense)Export Control (for example,Export Administration Regulations (EAR)restrictions for items on theCommerce Control List, orInternational Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)restrictions for items on theUS Munitions List)Financial (for example, bank secrecy, budget, and so on)Intelligence (for example, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act)Law enforcement (for example, criminal history records, accident investigations, and so on)Nuclear (for example,Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information– Energy)Privacy (for example, military personnel records, health information, and so on)And more
Critical infrastructure (for example, Critical Energy Infrastructure Information)
Defense (for example, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information, Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information – Defense)
Export Control (for example,Export Administration Regulations (EAR)restrictions for items on theCommerce Control List, orInternational Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)restrictions for items on theUS Munitions List)
Financial (for example, bank secrecy, budget, and so on)
Intelligence (for example, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act)
Law enforcement (for example, criminal history records, accident investigations, and so on)
Nuclear (for example,Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information– Energy)
Privacy (for example, military personnel records, health information, and so on)
And more
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)SP 800-171Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizationsis intended for use by federal agencies in contracts or other agreements established with non-federal organizations.
National Security Systems (NSS)NIST SP 800-59Guideline for Identifying an Information System as a National Security Systemprovides definitions of NSS. As stated on Page 3, NSS means any information system used by an agency which involves:Intelligence activitiesCryptologic activities related to national securityCommand and control of military forcesEquipment that is an integral part of weapons systemsFunctions critical to direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missionsThese categories are explained in more detail in Appendix A.1 starting on Page 7. See also Appendix A.2 on Page 9 for examples of questions that an agency may employ to provide clarification of these categories.TheCommittee on National Security Systems Instruction No. 1253 (CNSSI 1253)Security Categorization and Control Selection for National Security Systemsprovides guidance on the security standards that federal agencies should apply to categorize national security information.
National Security Systems (NSS)
NIST SP 800-59Guideline for Identifying an Information System as a National Security Systemprovides definitions of NSS. As stated on Page 3, NSS means any information system used by an agency which involves:Intelligence activitiesCryptologic activities related to national securityCommand and control of military forcesEquipment that is an integral part of weapons systemsFunctions critical to direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missionsThese categories are explained in more detail in Appendix A.1 starting on Page 7. See also Appendix A.2 on Page 9 for examples of questions that an agency may employ to provide clarification of these categories.
NIST SP 800-59Guideline for Identifying an Information System as a National Security Systemprovides definitions of NSS. As stated on Page 3, NSS means any information system used by an agency which involves:
Intelligence activities
Cryptologic activities related to national security
Command and control of military forces
Equipment that is an integral part of weapons systems
Functions critical to direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions
These categories are explained in more detail in Appendix A.1 starting on Page 7. See also Appendix A.2 on Page 9 for examples of questions that an agency may employ to provide clarification of these categories.
TheCommittee on National Security Systems Instruction No. 1253 (CNSSI 1253)Security Categorization and Control Selection for National Security Systemsprovides guidance on the security standards that federal agencies should apply to categorize national security information.
TheCommittee on National Security Systems Instruction No. 1253 (CNSSI 1253)Security Categorization and Control Selection for National Security Systemsprovides guidance on the security standards that federal agencies should apply to categorize national security information.
IL5 accommodates NSS and CUI categorizations based on CNSSI 1253 up to moderate confidentiality and moderate integrity (M-M-x). The determination of whether CUI and/or mission data fits the IL5 category is up to the authorizing official responsible for categorizing the information and choosing the cloud impact level.
The15 December 2014 DoD CIO memoregardingUpdated Guidance on the Acquisition and Use of Commercial Cloud Computing Servicesstates that “FedRAMP will serve as the minimum security baseline for all DoD cloud services.” The SRG uses the FedRAMP Moderate baseline at all information impact levels (IL) and considers the High Baseline at some.
Section 5.1.1DoD use of FedRAMP Security Controls(Page 37) of theCloud Computing SRGstates that a FedRAMP High provisional authorization, supplemented with DoD FedRAMP+ controls and control enhancements (C/CEs) and requirements in the Cloud Computing SRG, are used to assess CSOs toward awarding a DoD IL5 PA. No matter what C/CE baseline is used as the basis for a FedRAMP High provisional authorization, extra considerations and/or requirements will need to be assessed and approved before a DoD IL5 PA can be awarded. Moreover, according to Section 5.2.2.3Impact Level 5 Location and Separation Requirements(Page 51), the following requirements (among others) must be in place for an IL5 PA:
Virtual/logical separation between DoD and federal government tenants/missions is sufficient. Virtual/logical separation between tenant/mission systems is minimally required.
Physical separation from non-DoD/non-federal government tenants (for example, public, local/state government tenants) is required.
Section 5.6.2CSP Personnel Requirements(Page 76) additionally restricts CSP personnel having access to IL4 and IL5 data to US citizens, US nationals, or US persons. No foreign persons may have such access.
Azure and DoD IL5
Microsoft maintains the following authorizations for Azure Government regions US Gov Arizona, US Gov Texas, and US Gov Virginia:
FedRAMP High provisional authorization to operate (P-ATO) issued by the FedRAMP Joint Authorization Board (JAB)
DoD IL2 PA
DoD IL4 PA
DoD IL5 PA
If you are deploying IL5 workloads in Azure Government regions US Gov Arizona, US Gov Texas, and US Gov Virginia, make sure you reviewIsolation guidelines for Impact Level 5 workloadsfor help with meeting DoD IL5 isolation requirements.
Azure Government has two additional regions, US DoD Central and US DoD East, that are reserved for exclusive use by the US Department of Defense. A separate DoD IL5 PA is in place for Azure Government DoD regions. For more information, seeDepartment of Defense (DoD) in Azure Government.
For extra customer assistance, Microsoft provides the Azure Policy regulatory compliance built-in initiative for Azure Government, which maps to DoD IL5compliance domainsandcontrols:
DoD IL5 Azure Government regulatory compliance built-in initiative
Regulatory compliance in Azure Policy provides built-in initiative definitions to view a list of controls and compliance domains based on responsibility – customer, Microsoft, or shared. For Microsoft-responsible controls, we provide extra audit result details based on third-party attestations and our control implementation details to achieve that compliance. Each DoD IL5 control is associated with one or more Azure Policy definitions. These policies may help youassess compliancewith the control; however, compliance in Azure Policy is only a partial view of your overall compliance status. Azure Policy helps to enforce organizational standards and assess compliance at scale. Through its compliance dashboard, it provides an aggregated view to evaluate the overall state of the environment, with the ability to drill down to more granular status.
For more information about Azure support for NIST SP 800-171, seeAzure NIST SP 800-171 documentation.
Applicability
Azure Government
Services in scope
For a list of Azure Government cloud services in DoD IL5 PA scope, seeCloud services in audit scope.
Service availability varies across Azure Government regions. For an up-to-date list of service availability, seeProducts available by region.
Office 365 and DoD IL5
For more information about Office 365 compliance, seeOffice 365 DoD IL5 documentation.
Attestation documents
For access to Azure Government FedRAMP documentation, seeFedRAMP attestation documents.
Contact DISA for access to the most recent Azure Government DoD IL5 PA letter.
Frequently asked questions
What Azure services are covered by DoD IL5 PA and in what regions?To find out what services are available in Azure Government, seeProducts available by region. For a list of services provisionally authorized at DoD IL5, seeCloud services in audit scope.
Resources
Azure compliance documentation
Azure enables a world of compliance
Microsoft 365 compliance offerings
Compliance on the Microsoft Trust Center
What is Azure Government?
Explore Azure Government
Microsoft for defense and intelligence
DoD Cloud Computing Security Requirements Guide
FedRAMP documents and templates
DoD Instruction 8510.01DoD Risk Management Framework (RMF) for DoD Information Technology (IT)
NIST SP 800-37Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy
NIST SP 800-53Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations
NIST SP 800-59Guideline for Identifying an Information System as a National Security System
NIST SP 800-171Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations
CNSSI 1253Security Categorization and Control Selection for National Security Systems
Controlled unclassified information (CUI)Registryand CUIcategory list
Isolation guidelines for Impact Level 5 workloads
Additional resources