Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Reliability guides by service
Article
2025-04-11
12 contributors
In this article
This article provides links to reliability guidance for many Azure services.  Most reliability guides contain the following information:
Reliability architecture overviewis a synopsis of how the service supports reliability, including information about which components are managed by Microsoft and which are managed by you, any built-in redundancy features, and how to provision and manage multiple resources, if applicable.
Transient fault handlingdetails how the service handles normal day-to-day transient faults that can occur in the cloud and include information on how to handle these faults in your application. This includes information on retry policies, timeouts, and other best practices for handling transient faults.
Availability zonessuch as zonal and zone-redundant deployment options, traffic routing and data replication between zones, what happens if a zone experiences an outage, failback, and how to configure your resources for availability zone support.
Multi-region supportsuch as how to configure multi-region or geo-disaster support, traffic routing and data replication between regions, region-down experience, failover and failback support, alternative multi-region support.
Some guides also contain information on:
Backup supportsuch as who controls backups, where they are stored and replicated to, how they can be recovered, and whether they are accessible only within a region or across regions.
Service level agreementsfor availability, including how the expected uptime changes based on the configuration you use.
Reliability guides by service
This section provides links to reliability guidance for many Azure services. Each service guide contains information on how the service supports reliability features.
Note
Some service documents are in the process of, or are not yet updated into a single reliability guide format. These may contain more than one document that references reliability guidance.

















Related content
Azure services with availability zones
List of Azure regions
Build solutions for high availability using availability zones
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources