Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Getting started with Azure App Service
Article
2025-02-06
4 contributors
In this article
Azure App Serviceis a fully managed platform as a service (PaaS) for hosting web applications.
ASP.NET or ASP.NET Core
Use the following resources to get started with .NET.
Java
App Service aims to provide robust support for Java. To cover the depth and breadth of
Java applications, App Service supports the Java Standard Edition (SE), Tomcat, and
JBoss Enterprise Application Platform (EAP) technology stacks. At the base of these
stacks, App Service supports all recent Java long-term support (LTS) versions. There are
several key scenarios for which you should consider adopting App Service for your Java
applications.
Java SE on App Service
Java SE on App Service allows you to effortlessly deploy your applications to fully
managed Java Virtual Machine (JVM) instances. You should consider this stack if you
have Spring Boot and Quarkus web applications. However, you can use this stack for any
application that can be started directly from a JVM and includes an embedded
HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) server. You can deploy your
Java archive (JAR) file and let App Service do the rest.
Tomcat on App Service
This App Service stack supports all recent major and minor versions of Tomcat.
You should consider migrating on-premises Tomcat web applications to App Service using
this stack. Such applications often use technologies such as the Spring Framework and
Hibernate. The stack is also suitable for applications currently running on servers such
as WebLogic or WebSphere that can be easily migrated to Tomcat. You can deploy
your web application archive (WAR) file and let App Service do the rest.
JBoss EAP on App Service
You can effortlessly run any JBoss EAP version currently supported by Red Hat on this
App Service stack. JBoss EAP is fully compatible with the Java Enterprise Edition (EE)
and Jakarta EE standards. The stack can optionally support any application that requires
JBoss EAP clustering. You should consider migrating applications currently running
on-premises on JBoss EAP and WildFly to this stack. The stack is also suitable for
applications running on servers such as WebLogic or WebSphere that can be easily migrated
to JBoss EAP. You can deploy your web application archive (WAR) or
enterprise archive (EAR) file and let App Service do the rest.
Use the following resources to get started with Java.
Node.js
Use the following resources to get started with Node.js.
Python
Use the following resources to get started with Python.
PHP
Use the following resources to get started with PHP.
Next step
Learn about App Service
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources