Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Penetration testing
Article
2025-04-23
11 contributors
In this article
One of the benefits of using Azure for application testing and deployment is that you can quickly get environments created. You don't have to worry about requisitioning, acquiring, and "racking and stacking" your own on-premises hardware.
Quickly creating environments is great but you still need to make sure you perform your normal security due diligence. One of the things you likely want to do is penetration test the applications you deploy in Azure.
We don't perform penetration testing of your application for you, but we do understand that you want and need to perform testing on your own applications. That's a good thing, because when you enhance the security of your applications you help make the entire Azure ecosystem more secure.
As of June 15, 2017, Microsoft no longer requires pre-approval to conduct a penetration test against Azure resources. This process is only related to Microsoft Azure, and not applicable to any other Microsoft Cloud Service.
Important
While notifying Microsoft of pen testing activities is no longer required customers must still comply with theMicrosoft Cloud Unified Penetration Testing Rules of Engagement.
Standard tests you can perform include:
Tests on your endpoints to uncover theOpen Web Application Security Project (OWASP) top 10 vulnerabilities
Fuzz testingof your endpoints
Port scanningof your endpoints
One type of pen test that you can't perform is any kind ofDenial of Service (DoS)attack. This test includes initiating a DoS attack itself, or performing related tests that might determine, demonstrate, or simulate any type of DoS attack.
Note
You may only simulate attacks using Microsoft approved testing partners:
BreakingPoint Cloud: A self-service traffic generator where your customers can generate traffic against DDoS Protection-enabled public endpoints for simulations.
Red Button: Work with a dedicated team of experts to simulate real-world DDoS attack scenarios in a controlled environment.
RedWolfa self-service or guided DDoS testing provider with real-time control.
To learn more about these simulation partners, seetesting with simulation partners.
Next steps
Learn more about thePenetration Testing Rules of Engagement.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources