Azure Queue Storage
Reference

Connect to your Azure Queue Storage to create, query, delete queue entries and queues.
This article describes the operations for the Azure Queue Storagebuilt-inconnector, which is availableonlyfor Standard workflows in single-tenant Azure Logic Apps. If you're looking for the Azure Table Storagemanagedconnector operations instead, seeAzure Queue Storage managed connector reference.
Built-in connector settings
In a Standard logic app resource, the Azure Queue Storage built-in connector includes settings that control various thresholds for performance, timeout, execution time, and so on. For example, you can change the timeout value for queue storage requests from the Azure Logic Apps runtime. For more information, reviewReference for host settings - host.json - Table and queue storage.
Authentication
Storage account connection string
The connection string for your Azure storage account.
Parameters
Active Directory OAuth
Active Directory OAuth
Parameters
Managed identity
Managed identity
Parameters
Actions
Add a message without additional encoding to queue. By default, encoding in base64 is required to pick up the message when using the Azure Queue built-in connector trigger.
Create a new queue.
Delete a specific message from the queue.
Get a specific set of messages from the queue. The messages will be hidden but remain on the queue until the delete action is used.
Lists the queues for your storage account. If the max count parameter value is less than the number of queues returned in the paginated response from the API, the final response would return all the queues from that page.
Add a message to queue
Add a message without additional encoding to queue. By default, encoding in base64 is required to pick up the message when using the Azure Queue built-in connector trigger.
The queue to put a message to.
The message body without additional encoding.
Time to live. The input should be in timespan format. eg : "4.12:14:45".
Initial visibility delay. The input should be in timespan format. eg : "4.12:14:45".
Create a new queue
Create a new queue.
The name of the queue to create.
Delete message
Delete a specific message from the queue.
The queue to delete messages from.
The ID of the message to delete.
A valid pop receipt value returned from an earlier call to the Get Messages.
Get Messages
Get a specific set of messages from the queue. The messages will be hidden but remain on the queue until the delete action is used.
The queue to get Messages from.
The number of messages to grab from the queue.
The time in seconds that messages will be invisible to other consumers. The input should be in timespan format. eg : "4.12:14:45".
List queues
Lists the queues for your storage account. If the max count parameter value is less than the number of queues returned in the paginated response from the API, the final response would return all the queues from that page.
Queue prefix.
Maximum number of queues to fetch.
Continuation Token.
List of queues.
Continuation Token.
Triggers
This operation triggers a run when a specified number of messages are available in a queue.
This operation triggers a run when messages are available in a queue.
When a specified number of messages are available in a queue
This operation triggers a run when a specified number of messages are available in a queue.
The queue to check for messages.
The number of messages to wait for to fire the trigger.
Number of messages in the queue.
When messages are available in a queue
This operation triggers a run when messages are available in a queue.
The queue to check for messages.
Content of the message.
An identifier that Azure Queue can use to identify duplicate messages, if enabled.
The time the message was inserted into the queue.
The time the message will expire from the queue.
Used to delete the message after popping it off the queue.
The time the message will be visible to other consumers.