Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Prerequisites for Azure Kubernetes Service backup using Azure Backup
Article
2025-01-30
10 contributors
In this article
This article describes the prerequisites for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) backup.
Azure Backup now allows you to back up AKS clusters (cluster resources and persistent volumes attached to the cluster) using a backup extension, which must be installed in the cluster. Backup vault communicates with the cluster via this Backup Extension to perform backup and restore operations. Based on the least privileged security model, a Backup vault must haveTrusted Accessenabled to communicate with the AKS cluster.
Backup Extension
The extension enables backup and restore capabilities for the containerized workloads and persistent volumes used by the workloads running in AKS clusters.
The extension enables backup and restore capabilities for the containerized workloads and persistent volumes used by the workloads running in AKS clusters.
Backup Extension is installed in its own namespacedataprotection-microsoftby default. It is installed with cluster wide scope that allows the extension to access all the cluster resources. During the extension installation, it also creates a User-assigned Managed Identity (Extension Identity) in the Node Pool resource group.
Backup Extension is installed in its own namespacedataprotection-microsoftby default. It is installed with cluster wide scope that allows the extension to access all the cluster resources. During the extension installation, it also creates a User-assigned Managed Identity (Extension Identity) in the Node Pool resource group.
Backup Extension uses a blob container (provided in input during installation) as a default location for backup storage. To access this blob container, the Extension Identity requiresStorage Blob Data Contributorrole on the storage account that has the container.
Backup Extension uses a blob container (provided in input during installation) as a default location for backup storage. To access this blob container, the Extension Identity requiresStorage Blob Data Contributorrole on the storage account that has the container.
You need to install Backup Extension on both the source cluster to be backed up and the target cluster where backup is to be restored.
You need to install Backup Extension on both the source cluster to be backed up and the target cluster where backup is to be restored.
Backup Extension can be installed in the cluster from theAKS portalblade on theBackuptab underSettings. You can also use the Azure CLI commands tomanage the installation and other operations on the Backup Extension.
Backup Extension can be installed in the cluster from theAKS portalblade on theBackuptab underSettings. You can also use the Azure CLI commands tomanage the installation and other operations on the Backup Extension.
Before you install an extension in an AKS cluster, you must register theMicrosoft.KubernetesConfigurationresource provider at the subscription level. Learn how toregister the resource provider.
Before you install an extension in an AKS cluster, you must register theMicrosoft.KubernetesConfigurationresource provider at the subscription level. Learn how toregister the resource provider.
Microsoft.KubernetesConfiguration
Extension agent and extension operator are the core platform components in AKS, which are installed when an extension of any type is installed for the first time in an AKS cluster. These provide capabilities to deploy first-party and third-party extensions. The backup extension also relies on them for installation and upgrades.NoteBoth of these core components are deployed with aggressive hard limits on CPU and memory, with CPUless than 0.5% of a coreand memory limit ranging from50-200 MB. So, theCOGS impactof these components is very low. Because they are core platform components, there is no workaround available to remove them once installed in the cluster.
Extension agent and extension operator are the core platform components in AKS, which are installed when an extension of any type is installed for the first time in an AKS cluster. These provide capabilities to deploy first-party and third-party extensions. The backup extension also relies on them for installation and upgrades.
Note
Both of these core components are deployed with aggressive hard limits on CPU and memory, with CPUless than 0.5% of a coreand memory limit ranging from50-200 MB. So, theCOGS impactof these components is very low. Because they are core platform components, there is no workaround available to remove them once installed in the cluster.
If Storage Account, to be provided as input for Extension installation, is under Virtual Network/Firewall, then BackupVault needs to be added as trusted access in Storage Account Network Settings.Learn how to grant access to trusted Azure service, which helps to store backups in the Vault datastore
If Storage Account, to be provided as input for Extension installation, is under Virtual Network/Firewall, then BackupVault needs to be added as trusted access in Storage Account Network Settings.Learn how to grant access to trusted Azure service, which helps to store backups in the Vault datastore
The blob container provided in input during extension installation should not contain any files unrelated to backup.
The blob container provided in input during extension installation should not contain any files unrelated to backup.
Learnhow to manage the operation to install Backup Extension using Azure CLI.
Trusted Access
Many Azure services depend onclusterAdmin kubeconfigand thepublicly accessible kube-apiserver endpointto access AKS clusters. TheAKS Trusted Accessfeature enables you to bypass the private endpoint restriction. Without using Microsoft Entra application, this feature enables you to give explicit consent to your system-assigned identity of allowed resources to access your AKS clusters using an Azure resource RoleBinding. The feature allows you to access AKS clusters with different configurations, which aren't limited to private clusters, clusters with local accounts disabled, Microsoft Entra ID clusters, and authorized IP range clusters.
Your Azure resources access AKS clusters through the AKS regional gateway using system-assigned managed identity authentication. The managed identity must have the appropriate Kubernetes permissions assigned via an Azure resource role.
For AKS backup, the Backup vault accesses your AKS clusters via Trusted Access to configure backups and restores. The Backup vault is assigned a predefined roleMicrosoft.DataProtection/backupVaults/backup-operatorin the AKS cluster, allowing it to only perform specific backup operations.
To enable Trusted Access between a Backup vault and an AKS cluster. Learnhow to enable Trusted Access
Note
You can install the Backup Extension on your AKS cluster directly from the Azure portal under theBackupsection in AKS portal.
You can also enable Trusted Access between Backup vault and AKS cluster during the backup or restore operations in the Azure portal.
AKS Cluster
To enable backup for an AKS cluster, see the following prerequisites: .
AKS backup uses Container Storage Interface (CSI) drivers snapshot capabilities to perform backups of persistent volumes. CSI Driver support is available for AKS clusters with Kubernetes version1.21.1or later.NoteCurrently, AKS backup only supports backup of Azure Disk-based persistent volumes (enabled by CSI driver). If you're using Azure File Share and Azure Blob type persistent volumes in your AKS clusters, you can configure backups for them via the Azure Backup solutions available forAzure File ShareandAzure Blob.In Tree, volumes aren't supported by AKS backup; only CSI driver based volumes can be backed up. You canmigrate from tree volumes to CSI driver based Persistent Volumes.
AKS backup uses Container Storage Interface (CSI) drivers snapshot capabilities to perform backups of persistent volumes. CSI Driver support is available for AKS clusters with Kubernetes version1.21.1or later.
Note
Currently, AKS backup only supports backup of Azure Disk-based persistent volumes (enabled by CSI driver). If you're using Azure File Share and Azure Blob type persistent volumes in your AKS clusters, you can configure backups for them via the Azure Backup solutions available forAzure File ShareandAzure Blob.
In Tree, volumes aren't supported by AKS backup; only CSI driver based volumes can be backed up. You canmigrate from tree volumes to CSI driver based Persistent Volumes.
Before installing Backup Extension in the AKS cluster, ensure that the CSI drivers and snapshots are enabled for your cluster. If disabled, seethese steps to enable them.
Before installing Backup Extension in the AKS cluster, ensure that the CSI drivers and snapshots are enabled for your cluster. If disabled, seethese steps to enable them.
Azure Backup for AKS supports AKS clusters using either a system-assigned managed identity or a user-assigned managed identity for backup operations. Although clusters using a service principal aren't supported, you can update an existing AKS cluster to use asystem-assigned managed identityor auser-assigned managed identity.
Azure Backup for AKS supports AKS clusters using either a system-assigned managed identity or a user-assigned managed identity for backup operations. Although clusters using a service principal aren't supported, you can update an existing AKS cluster to use asystem-assigned managed identityor auser-assigned managed identity.
The Backup Extension during installation fetches Container Images stored in Microsoft Container Registry (MCR). If you enable a firewall on the AKS cluster, the extension installation process might fail due to access issues on the Registry. Learnhow to allow MCR access from the firewall.
The Backup Extension during installation fetches Container Images stored in Microsoft Container Registry (MCR). If you enable a firewall on the AKS cluster, the extension installation process might fail due to access issues on the Registry. Learnhow to allow MCR access from the firewall.
In case you have the cluster in a Private Virtual Network and Firewall, apply the following FQDN/application rules:*.microsoft.com,mcr.microsoft.com,data.mcr.microsoft.com,crl.microsoft.com,mscrl.microsoft.com,oneocsp.microsoft.com,*.azure.com,management.azure.com,gcs.prod.monitoring.core.windows.net,*.prod.warm.ingest.monitor.core.windows.net,*.blob.core.windows.net,*.azmk8s.io,ocsp.digicert.com,cacerts.digicert.com,crl3.digicert.com,crl4.digicert.com,ocsp.digicert.cn,cacerts.digicert.cn,cacerts.geotrust.com,cdp.geotrust.com,status.geotrust.com,ocsp.msocsp.com,*.azurecr.io,docker.io,*.dp.kubernetesconfiguration.azure.com. Learnhow to apply FQDN rules.
In case you have the cluster in a Private Virtual Network and Firewall, apply the following FQDN/application rules:*.microsoft.com,mcr.microsoft.com,data.mcr.microsoft.com,crl.microsoft.com,mscrl.microsoft.com,oneocsp.microsoft.com,*.azure.com,management.azure.com,gcs.prod.monitoring.core.windows.net,*.prod.warm.ingest.monitor.core.windows.net,*.blob.core.windows.net,*.azmk8s.io,ocsp.digicert.com,cacerts.digicert.com,crl3.digicert.com,crl4.digicert.com,ocsp.digicert.cn,cacerts.digicert.cn,cacerts.geotrust.com,cdp.geotrust.com,status.geotrust.com,ocsp.msocsp.com,*.azurecr.io,docker.io,*.dp.kubernetesconfiguration.azure.com. Learnhow to apply FQDN rules.
*.microsoft.com
mcr.microsoft.com
data.mcr.microsoft.com
crl.microsoft.com
mscrl.microsoft.com
oneocsp.microsoft.com
*.azure.com
management.azure.com
gcs.prod.monitoring.core.windows.net
*.prod.warm.ingest.monitor.core.windows.net
*.blob.core.windows.net
*.azmk8s.io
ocsp.digicert.com
cacerts.digicert.com
crl3.digicert.com
crl4.digicert.com
ocsp.digicert.cn
cacerts.digicert.cn
cacerts.geotrust.com
cdp.geotrust.com
status.geotrust.com
ocsp.msocsp.com
*.azurecr.io
docker.io
*.dp.kubernetesconfiguration.azure.com
If you have any previous installation ofVeleroin the AKS cluster, you need to delete it before installing Backup Extension.
If you have any previous installation ofVeleroin the AKS cluster, you need to delete it before installing Backup Extension.
[!NOTE]
The Velero CRDs installed in the cluster are shared between AKS Backup and the customer’s own Velero installation. However, the versions used by each installation may differ, potentially leading to failures due to contractmismatches.
Additionally, custom Velero configurations created by the customer—such as a VolumeSnapshotClass for Velero CSI-based snapshotting—might interfere with the AKS Backup snapshotting setup.
Velero annotations containingvelero.ioapplied to various resources in the cluster can also impact the behavior of AKS Backup in unsupported ways.
velero.io
If you are usingAzure policies in your AKS cluster, ensure that the extension namespacedataprotection-microsoftis excluded from these policies to allow backup and restore operations to run successfully.
If you are usingAzure policies in your AKS cluster, ensure that the extension namespacedataprotection-microsoftis excluded from these policies to allow backup and restore operations to run successfully.
If you are using Azure network security group to filter network traffic between Azure resources in an Azure virtual network then set an inbound rule to allow service tagsazurebackupandazurecloud.
If you are using Azure network security group to filter network traffic between Azure resources in an Azure virtual network then set an inbound rule to allow service tagsazurebackupandazurecloud.
Required roles and permissions
To perform AKS backup and restore operations as a user, you need to have specific roles on the AKS cluster, Backup vault, Storage account, and Snapshot resource group.
Note
Owner role on an Azure resource allows you to perform Azure RBAC operations of that resource. If it's not available, theresource ownermust provide the required roles to the Backup vault and AKS cluster before initiating the backup or restore operations.
Also, as part of the backup and restore operations, the following roles are assigned to the AKS cluster, Backup Extension Identity, and Backup vault.
Note
AKS backup allows you to assign these roles during backup and restore processes through the Azure portal with a single click.
Next steps
About Azure Kubernetes Service backup
Supported scenarios for Azure Kubernetes Service cluster backup
Back up Azure Kubernetes Service cluster usingAzure portal,Azure PowerShell
Restore Azure Kubernetes Service cluster usingAzure portal,Azure CLI,Azure PowerShell
Manage Azure Kubernetes Service cluster backups
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources