Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Introduction to the hybrid and multicloud scenario
Article
2022-12-01
6 contributors
In this article
As customers address larger, more sophisticated forms of cloud adoption, their journey to the cloud becomes slightly more complex. This article series consolidates various technical and non-technical considerations required to prepare for a hybrid and multicloud adoption scenario.
This scenario focuses on enabling two targeted outcomes:
Hybrid and multicloud adoption: Building, deploying, and/or migrating solutions that are portable, allowing for ease of movement between cloud platforms with minimum vendor lock-in.
Unified operations: Streamlining operations to support those solutions across each cloud, through a central set of governance and management processes which share common operations processes, regardless of where the solution is currently deployed.
Scenario components
This scenario is designed to guide the end-2-end customer journey during the cloud adoption lifecycle.

Delivery of the full journey requires certain key components, or guidance sets:
Common customer challenges and supporting guidance
Prepare for centralized operations of hybrid and multicloud:Review the sevenCloud Adoption Frameworkarticles in the table of contents to the right. Establish the processes and approaches required to support an entire portfolio of workloads across hybrid and multicloud environments.
Monitor assets across an existing hybrid and multicloud portfolio:Focus on the unified operations, govern, and manage articles to integrate unified operations into your existing operations processes. Use the ready article to deploy those improvements across all of your cloud environments.
Influence changes to individual workloads (central IT):As hybrid and multicloud controls improve, the central IT teams will encounter requirements that depend on knowledge of the architecture behind individual workloads. Use theAzure Well-Architected Frameworkguidance to help workload owners understand potential improvements to their workloads that will improve hybrid and multicloud operations.
Optimize individual workloads (workload teams):Workload owners should start with theMicrosoft Azure Well-Architected Reviewguidance to understand the best ways to integrate hybrid and multicloud strategies into their workloads. If the team is also supported by central IT or a CCoE team, this guidance will provide insights into best practices and architectures (that the central IT team is typically responsible to deliver) to accelerate your workload development.
Processes to onboard individual assets:Use best practices section to execute a series of processes to onboard all of your hybrid assets.
Implement specific Azure products:Accelerate and improve hybrid and multicloud capabilities using a variety of Azure products outlined in the featured products section.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources