Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Create subscriptions in Azure API Management
Article
2025-03-13
4 contributors
In this article
APPLIES TO: All API Management tiers
When you publish APIs through Azure API Management, it's easy and common to secure access to those APIs by using subscription keys. Client applications that need to consume the published APIs must include a valid subscription key in HTTP requests when they make calls to those APIs. To get a subscription key for accessing APIs, a subscription is required. For more information about subscriptions, seeSubscriptions in Azure API Management.
This article walks through the steps for creating subscriptions in the Azure portal.
Important
TheAllow tracingsetting in subscriptions to enable debug traces is deprecated. To improve security, tracing can now be enabled for specific API requests to API Management.Learn more
Prerequisites
To take the steps in this article, the prerequisites are as follows:
Create an API Management instance.
Understandsubscriptions in API Management.
Create a new subscription
Navigate to your API Management instance in theAzure portal.
In the left menu, underAPIs, selectSubscriptions>Add subscription.
Provide aNameand optionalDisplay nameof the subscription.
Select aScopeof the subscription from the dropdown list.Learn more
Optionally, choose if the subscription should be associated with aUserand whether to send a notification for use with the developer portal.
SelectCreate.

After you create the subscription, it appears in the list on theSubscriptionspage. Two API keys are provided to access the APIs. One key is primary, and one is secondary.
Related content
Get more information on API Management:
Learn otherconceptsin API Management.
Follow ourtutorialsto learn more about API Management.
Check ourFAQ pagefor common questions.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources