Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trysigning inorchanging directories.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can trychanging directories.
Monitoring and Reporting solutions for Azure Backup
Article
2024-12-30
6 contributors
In this article
This article provides an overview of different monitoring and reporting solutions provided by Azure Backup.
Azure Backup offers integration with various Azure services, such as Azure Resource Graph, Azure Monitor Alerts, Azure Monitor Logs (Log Analytics), and Azure Resource Health. Azure Backup also offers interfaces to various Azure clients, such as Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, and Azure REST API. Depending on your monitoring and reporting requirements, you can use a combination of these integrations.
Important
Classic alerts for Azure Backup will be deprecated on 31 March 2026. We recommend you tomigrate to Azure Monitor Alertsfor a seamless experience.
Monitoring and Reporting scenarios
The following sections provide an overview of the different monitoring and reporting scenarios that commonly arise in enterprise backup deployments. Today, Azure Backup provides the capabilities for each scenario, along with the relevant document references.
Key benefits of Azure Monitor alerts
Azure Monitor for Azure Backup provides the following key benefits:
Configure notifications to a wide range of notification channels: Azure Monitor supports a wide range of notification channels, such as email, ITSM, webhooks, logic apps, and so on. You can configure notifications for backup alerts to any of these channels without investing much time in creating custom integrations.
Configure notifications to a wide range of notification channels: Azure Monitor supports a wide range of notification channels, such as email, ITSM, webhooks, logic apps, and so on. You can configure notifications for backup alerts to any of these channels without investing much time in creating custom integrations.
Enable notifications for selective scenarios: With Azure Monitor alerts, you can choose the scenarios to be notified about. Also, you can enable notifications for test subscriptions.
Enable notifications for selective scenarios: With Azure Monitor alerts, you can choose the scenarios to be notified about. Also, you can enable notifications for test subscriptions.
Monitor alerts at-scale via Azure Business Continuity Center: In addition to enabling you to manage the alerts from Azure Monitor dashboard, Azure Backup also provides an alert management experience tailored to backups via Azure Business Continuity Center. This allows you to filter alerts by backup specific properties, such as workload type, vault location, and so on, and a way to get quick visibility into the active backup security alerts that need attention.
Monitor alerts at-scale via Azure Business Continuity Center: In addition to enabling you to manage the alerts from Azure Monitor dashboard, Azure Backup also provides an alert management experience tailored to backups via Azure Business Continuity Center. This allows you to filter alerts by backup specific properties, such as workload type, vault location, and so on, and a way to get quick visibility into the active backup security alerts that need attention.
Manage alerts and notifications programmatically: You can use Azure Monitor’s REST APIs to manage alerts and notifications via non-portal clients as well.
Manage alerts and notifications programmatically: You can use Azure Monitor’s REST APIs to manage alerts and notifications via non-portal clients as well.
Consistent alert management for multiple Azure services, including backup: Azure Monitor is the native service for monitoring resources across Azure. With the integration of Azure Backup with Azure Monitor, you can manage backup alerts in the same way as alerts for other Azure services, without requiring a separate learning curve.
Consistent alert management for multiple Azure services, including backup: Azure Monitor is the native service for monitoring resources across Azure. With the integration of Azure Backup with Azure Monitor, you can manage backup alerts in the same way as alerts for other Azure services, without requiring a separate learning curve.
Azure Monitor alerts for Azure Backup
Azure Backup also provides alerts via Azure Monitor that enables you to have a consistent experience for alert management across different Azure services, including Azure Backup. With Azure Monitor alerts, you can route alerts to any notification channel supported by Azure Monitor, such as email, ITSM, Webhook, Logic App, and so on.
Currently, Azure Backup provides two main types of built-in alerts:
Security Alerts: For scenarios, such as deletion of backup data, or disabling of soft-delete functionality for vault, security alerts (of severity Sev 0) are fired, and displayed in the Azure portal or consumed via other clients (PowerShell, CLI, and REST API). Security alerts are generated by default and can't be turned off. However, you can control the scenarios for which the notifications (for example, emails) should be fired. For more information on how to configure notifications, seeAction rules.
Job Failure Alerts: For scenarios, such as backup failure and restore failure, Azure Backup provides built-in alerts via Azure Monitor (of Severity Sev 1). Unlike security alerts, you can choose to turn off Azure Monitor alerts for job failure scenarios. For example, you've already configured custom alert rules for job failures via Log Analytics, and don't need built-in alerts to be fired for every job failure. By default, alerts for job failures are turned on. For more information, see thesection on turning on alerts for these scenarios.
The following table summarizes the different backup alerts currently available via Azure Monitor and the supported workload/vault types:
Note
For Azure VM backup, backup failure alerts are not sent in scenarios where the underlying VM is deleted, or another backup job is already in progress (leading to failure of the other backup job). This is because these are scenarios where backup is expected to fail by design and hence alerts are not generated in these 2 cases.
Next steps
Learn about Azure Business Continuity Center.
Learn how to monitor alerts.
Learn how to configure and view reports.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Additional resources